Swiftly and silently he made his way along the track which ran through the meadows, and so by way of the woods to the Boscombe Pool.
It lay between that and her bedroom, and I was determined to see which.
"'Tell me, dad,' said she, looking, I thought, a little disturbed, 'did you give Lucy, the maid, leave to go out to-night?' "'Certainly not.' "'She came in just now by the back door.
As evening drew in, the storm grew higher and louder, and the wind cried and sobbed like a child in the chimney.
He wore rather baggy grey shepherd's check trousers, a not over-clean black frock-coat, unbuttoned in the front, and a drab waistcoat with a heavy brassy Albert chain, and a square pierced bit of metal dangling down as an ornament.
Filled with the most maddening doubts and fears, she rushed down the lane and, by rare good-fortune, met in Fresno Street a number of constables with an inspector, all on their way to their beat.
We had, however, an aunt, my mother's maiden sister, Miss Honoria Westphail, who lives near Harrow, and we were occasionally allowed to pay short visits at this lady's house.
"Still, I confess that I miss my rubber.
Turner.
Toller!" cried Miss Hunter.
Simon, but it was dreadful hard before his mother and all those great people.
Now, Mr.
Astonishment at the unexpected sight of you might cause him to throw up his hands?" "It is possible." "And you thought he was pulled back?" "He disappeared so suddenly." "He might have leaped back.
When he was young he became a member of an aristocratic club, and there, having charming manners, he was soon the intimate of a number of men with long purses and expensive habits.
I found this single sheet upon the floor of his room, and I am inclined to think that it may be one of the papers which has, perhaps, fluttered out from among the others, and in that way has escaped destruction.
"I would have spoken now had it not been for my dear girl.
Holmes, that we are very much indebted to you for having cleared the matter up.
His manner was not effusive.
"I do not quite follow," he said.
I thought, at any rate, that I should call you and give you the chance." "My dear fellow, I would not miss it for anything." I had no keener pleasure than in following Holmes in his professional investigations, and in admiring the rapid deductions, as swift as intuitions, and yet always founded on a logical basis with which he unravelled the problems which were submitted to him.
"'This is my secretary and manager,' said the colonel.
From the lower part of the face he appeared to be a man of strong character, with a thick, hanging lip, and a long, straight chin suggestive of resolution pushed to the length of obstinacy.
As I stood in the passage gazing at the sinister door and wondering what secret it might veil, I suddenly heard the sound of steps within the room and saw a shadow pass backward and forward against the little slit of dim light which shone out from under the door.
tut!" cried Sherlock Holmes.
I have never denied him a wish.
The point about the signature is very suggestive--in fact, we may call it conclusive." "Of what?" "My dear fellow, is it possible you do not see how strongly it bears upon the case?" "I cannot say that I do unless it were that he wished to be able to deny his signature if an action for breach of promise were instituted." "No, that was not the point.
Pancras Hotel.
"Coarse writing," murmured Holmes.
The rapidity with which such a poison would take effect would also, from his point of view, be an advantage.
Just ring the bell and the maid will bring up your coffee." As I waited, I lifted the unopened newspaper from the table and glanced my eye over it.
Here, signed with her initials, is the very note which was no doubt quietly slipped into her hand at the door and which lured her within their reach." "Very good, Lestrade," said Holmes, laughing.
"My messenger reached you, then?" asked Holmes.
While she was walking in this way down Swandam Lane, she suddenly heard an ejaculation or cry, and was struck cold to see her husband looking down at her and, as it seemed to her, beckoning to her from a second-floor window.
I hope that I may be back in a few hours." He cut a slice of beef from the joint upon the sideboard, sandwiched it between two rounds of bread, and thrusting this rude meal into his pocket he started off upon his expedition.
Pray draw up to it, and I shall order you a cup of hot coffee, for I observe that you are shivering." "It is not cold which makes me shiver," said the woman in a low voice, changing her seat as requested.
I have three maid-servants who have been with me a number of years and whose absolute reliability is quite above suspicion.
By profession I am a hydraulic engineer, and I have had considerable experience of my work during the seven years that I was apprenticed to Venner & Matheson, the well-known firm, of Greenwich.
I should not dream of doing so were it not absolutely certain that I should be able in four days to reclaim it.
"Have you dragged the basin of Trafalgar Square fountain?" he asked.
You see, Watson, our little deductions have suddenly assumed a much more important and less innocent aspect.
Ah, he's breathing now." "He can't lie in the street.
Can you not find the advertisement, Mr.
I came in by train this morning, and on inquiring at Paddington as to where I might find a doctor, a worthy fellow very kindly escorted me here.
Well, a cheetah is just a big cat, and yet a saucer of milk does not go very far in satisfying its wants, I daresay.
'Your duty would be, as I am sure your good sense would suggest, to obey any little commands my wife might give, provided always that they were such commands as a lady might with propriety obey.
The 'G' with the small 't' stands for 'Gesellschaft,' which is the German for 'Company.' It is a customary contraction like our 'Co.' 'P,' of course, stands for 'Papier.' Now for the 'Eg.' Let us glance at our Continental Gazetteer." He took down a heavy brown volume from his shelves.
Rucastle to be back before three.
"Then that explains what the girl said." "Undoubtedly.
K.
What do you deduce from it?" I carefully examined the writing, and the paper upon which it was written.
Sherlock Holmes stopped in front of it with his head on one side and looked it all over, with his eyes shining brightly between puckered lids.
Ha!
My suspicions were all confirmed by his peculiar action in typewriting his signature, which, of course, inferred that his handwriting was so familiar to her that she would recognise even the smallest sample of it.
"Well, when I came to think it all over in cool blood I was very much astonished, as you may both think, at this sudden commission which had been intrusted to me.
It is quite separate and was left me by my uncle Ned in Auckland.
We had occasion some months ago to strengthen our resources and borrowed for that purpose 30,000 napoleons from the Bank of France.
"'It is your only chance,' said she.
"Well, I never!" said he.
That and a tooth-brush are, I think, all that we need." At Waterloo we were fortunate in catching a train for Leatherhead, where we hired a trap at the station inn and drove for four or five miles through the lovely Surrey lanes.
He wouldn't have any visitors if he could help it, and he used to say that a woman should be happy in her own family circle.
A maid rushed across and threw open the window.
Lestrade, being rather puzzled, has referred the case to me, and hence it is that two middle-aged gentlemen are flying westward at fifty miles an hour instead of quietly digesting their breakfasts at home." "I am afraid," said I, "that the facts are so obvious that you will find little credit to be gained out of this case." "There is nothing more deceptive than an obvious fact," he answered, laughing.
There were, it is true, some blood-stains upon his right shirt-sleeve, but he pointed to his ring-finger, which had been cut near the nail, and explained that the bleeding came from there, adding that he had been to the window not long before, and that the stains which had been observed there came doubtless from the same source.
I only quote this as a trivial example of observation and inference.
"It is a little off the beaten track, isn't it?" said he.
"This aroused my curiosity, so when I went out for a walk in the grounds with my charge, I strolled round to the side from which I could see the windows of this part of the house.
It may have been taken from him." "No, no; it is, it is his very own writing!" "Very well.
"The first thing that put us out was that advertisement.
I am going through the City first, and we can have some lunch on the way.
With much labour we separated them and carried him, living but horribly mangled, into the house.
They were admirable things for the observer--excellent for drawing the veil from men's motives and actions.
They are all typewritten.
Holmes.
He saw her stealthily open the window, hand out the coronet to someone in the gloom, and then closing it once more hurry back to her room, passing quite close to where he stood hid behind the curtain.
"Frank here and I met in '84, in McQuire's camp, near the Rockies, where pa was working a claim.
They have laid for five." "Yes, I fancy we may have some company dropping in," said he.
Holmes?" "Ah, I have no data.
I love and am loved by a better man than he.
It appears that some little trouble was caused by a woman, whose name has not been ascertained, who endeavoured to force her way into the house after the bridal party, alleging that she had some claim upon Lord St.
Holmes, and I should be very glad if you could tell me what it all means, and, above all, what I should do." Holmes and I had listened spellbound to this extraordinary story.
One of these, whom I had cured of a painful and lingering disease, was never weary of advertising my virtues and of endeavouring to send me on every sufferer over whom he might have any influence.
For some years the organisation flourished in spite of the efforts of the United States government and of the better classes of the community in the South.
I think that I have seen enough now, Miss Stoner, and with your permission we shall walk out upon the lawn." I had never seen my friend's face so grim or his brow so dark as it was when we turned from the scene of this investigation.
But then, when I found how I had betrayed myself, I began to think.
How our hydraulic engineer had been conveyed from the garden to the spot where he recovered his senses might have remained forever a mystery were it not for the soft mould, which told us a very plain tale.
Do you think that I would respond to such a trifle and yet be ignorant of his death?" "I have seen too much not to know that the impression of a woman may be more valuable than the conclusion of an analytical reasoner.
For many years he had adopted a system of docketing all paragraphs concerning men and things, so that it was difficult to name a subject or a person on which he could not at once furnish information.
I shall be true to Hosmer.
Jump, Archie, jump, and I'll swing for it!" Sherlock Holmes had sprung out and seized the intruder by the collar.
A door which faced that which led into the quarters of the Tollers opened into this suite, but it was invariably locked.
Holder, that I am giving you a strong proof of the confidence which I have in you, founded upon all that I have heard of you.
He is older than Arthur, a man of the world to his finger-tips, one who had been everywhere, seen everything, a brilliant talker, and a man of great personal beauty.
I had filled the first two with my linen, and as I had still much to pack away I was naturally annoyed at not having the use of the third drawer.
It was a considerable sum, for people in their position, and the loss of it would have made a serious difference.
It was a very ordinary black hat of the usual round shape, hard and much the worse for wear.
"They may rest here on the hook and will be dry presently.
It walked slowly across the lawn and vanished into the shadow upon the other side.
"Was he in favour of such a union?" "No, he was averse to it also.
The Boscombe Pool is thickly wooded round, with just a fringe of grass and of reeds round the edge.
The envelope was a very coarse one and was stamped with the Gravesend postmark and with the date of that very day, or rather of the day before, for it was considerably after midnight.
His silence appears to me to cut both ways.
Clair had been deluded when, with a cry, she sprang at a small deal box which lay upon the table and tore the lid from it.
And then suddenly the whole business came to an end." "To an end?" "Yes, sir.
I read suspicion there and annoyance, but no jest.
It is quite clear that the colonel was a cool and desperate man, who was absolutely determined that nothing should stand in the way of his little game, like those out-and-out pirates who will leave no survivor from a captured ship.
"This is wanting in the police report, where more stress is laid, perhaps, upon the platitudes of the magistrate than upon the details, which to an observer contain the vital essence of the whole matter.
I believe that he foresaw some danger, or else he would not have talked so.
She was passing the front pew at the time, and it fell over into the pew.
As far as I have heard it is impossible for me to say whether the present case is an instance of crime or not, but the course of events is certainly among the most singular that I have ever listened to.
I am sure that you inquired your way merely in order that you might see him." "Not him." "What then?" "The knees of his trousers." "And what did you see?" "What I expected to see." "Why did you beat the pavement?" "My dear doctor, this is a time for observation, not for talk.
And he said that I had nothing fit to wear, when I had my purple plush that I had never so much as taken out of the drawer.
The passage outside was empty.
"'F.H.M.' Now my theory all along has been that Lady St.
Sherlock Holmes," said Jabez Wilson, mopping his forehead; "I have a small pawnbroker's business at Coburg Square, near the City.
Rucastle coming out through this door, his keys in his hand, and a look on his face which made him a very different person to the round, jovial man to whom I was accustomed.
"I have seen the will of the deceased wife," said he.
I was young.
The next instant I threw myself through, and lay half-fainting upon the other side.
"Your beer should be excellent if it is as good as your geese," said he.
Windigate, of the Alpha, and by him to his club, of which Mr.
"A feeling of repulsion, and of something akin to fear had begun to rise within me at the strange antics of this fleshless man.
'This is all quite beside the question.
But, dear me!
Sherlock Holmes: "You really did it very well.
Jabez Wilson, and let me congratulate you once more on the important position which you have been fortunate enough to gain.' He bowed me out of the room and I went home with my assistant, hardly knowing what to say or do, I was so pleased at my own good fortune.
I'll have the other, and I'll take it now,' said I.
"'Where are they all, Maggie?' I cried.
Then let us hurry to him at once to let him know that the truth is known." "He knows it already.
"'In my own bureau.' "'Well, I hope to goodness the house won't be burgled during the night.' said he.
She wrote me dreadful letters when she heard that I was about to be married, and, to tell the truth, the reason why I had the marriage celebrated so quietly was that I feared lest there might be a scandal in the church.
There is a date, you see, but no superscription except Leadenhall Street, which is rather vague.
It would only have made him mad to know, so we just fixed it all up for ourselves.
Of course there is only one feasible explanation.
"If I claim full justice for my art, it is because it is an impersonal thing--a thing beyond myself.
"The next I heard of Frank was that he was in Montana, and then he went prospecting in Arizona, and then I heard of him from New Mexico.
Hosmer Angel must have some strong object for his curious conduct, and it was equally clear that the only man who really profited by the incident, as far as we could see, was the stepfather.
I know that everything was turning round, and the words of the clergyman were just like the buzz of a bee in my ear.
This is no time for despair." "I have seen the police." "Ah!" "But they listened to my story with a smile.
"You work your own method, and I shall work mine.
'You have been recommended to me, Mr.
I know that he has done no harm and that you will be sorry for having acted so harshly." "Why is he silent, then, if he is innocent?" "Who knows?
"I am afraid that my colleague has been a little quick in forming his conclusions," he said.
"Data!
"What's up, then?" asked Holmes with a twinkle in his eye.
Then he passed his handkerchief over his brow, set his lips tight, and turned his face towards us.
"You must know," said he, "that I am an orphan and a bachelor, residing alone in lodgings in London.
"Surely this is not your husband's writing, madam." "No, but the enclosure is." "I perceive also that whoever addressed the envelope had to go and inquire as to the address." "How can you tell that?" "The name, you see, is in perfectly black ink, which has dried itself.
"I will tell you, then, what occurred in your house last night.
He has not been home for two days.
"It would cease to be a danger if we could define it," said he.
'From India!' said he as he took it up, 'Pondicherry postmark!
Baker with a sigh of relief.
The case has, in some respects, been not entirely devoid of interest." "I cannot now entirely see all the steps of your reasoning," I remarked.
But as I listened to his talk all that was black and bitter in me seemed to come uppermost.
I rang the bell and was shown up to the chamber which had formerly been in part my own.
Simon." Sherlock Holmes leaned back in his chair and laughed heartily.
I would take my goose now, and in it I would carry my stone to Kilburn.
"I am going right on." "Where to?" "Oh, to the other side of the West End.
Was dressed in--' etc., etc.
And now--and now I am myself a branded thief, without ever having touched the wealth for which I sold my character.
As to Mrs.
Do not worry about my future, for that is provided for; and, above all, do not search for me, for it will be fruitless labour and an ill-service to me.
As it is an open secret that the Duke of Balmoral has been compelled to sell his pictures within the last few years, and as Lord St.
You will ask me why I did not dispose of it?
"I see--her ladyship's waiting-maid.
K.,' said I.
What has she been saying to you?" "It is a little cold for the time of the year," said Holmes.
"Well, really!" he cried, and then he choked and laughed again until he was obliged to lie back, limp and helpless, in the chair.
There is no communication between them, but they all open out into the same corridor.
Oakshott, of Brixton Road, to a salesman named Breckinridge, by him in turn to Mr.
THE ADVENTURES OF SHERLOCK HOLMES Arthur Conan Doyle Table of contents A Scandal in Bohemia The Red-Headed League A Case of Identity The Boscombe Valley Mystery The Five Orange Pips The Man with the Twisted Lip The Adventure of the Blue Carbuncle The Adventure of the Speckled Band The Adventure of the Engineer's Thumb The Adventure of the Noble Bachelor The Adventure of the Beryl Coronet The Adventure of the Copper Beeches A SCANDAL IN BOHEMIA Table of contents Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 CHAPTER I To Sherlock Holmes she is always the woman.
She left this morning with her husband by the 5.15 train from Charing Cross for the Continent." "What!" Sherlock Holmes staggered back, white with chagrin and surprise.
It seemed likely enough that the weighted coat had remained when the stripped body had been sucked away into the river." "But I understand that all the other clothes were found in the room.
"Pray take a seat," said Holmes.
The Copper Beeches, five miles on the far side of Winchester.
"Her husband lies snoring on the kitchen rug.
Sherlock Holmes sat for some time in silence, with his head sunk forward and his eyes bent upon the red glow of the fire.
I thought, however, that before taking the final step I should like to submit the whole matter to your consideration." "Well, Miss Hunter, if your mind is made up, that settles the question," said Holmes, smiling.
From their conversation I have gathered that they have been married about seven years, that he was a widower, and that his only child by the first wife was the daughter who has gone to Philadelphia.
I should not ask it of you if I did not think you a quite exceptional woman." "I will try.
"When you go out close the door, for there is a decided draught." "I will go when I have said my say.
Rucastle, who was waiting outside.
Here we are, and they are waiting for us." We had reached the same crowded thoroughfare in which we had found ourselves in the morning.
William Morris or Mr.
We must be at Briony Lodge to meet her." "And what then?" "You must leave that to me.
In the case of Pondicherry, seven weeks elapsed between the threat and its fulfilment, in Dundee it was only some three or four days.
It was of excellent material, a sort of beige, but it bore unmistakable signs of having been worn before.
These are the more patent facts which are to be deduced from his hat.
I shall drop you a line before I leave." Having left Lestrade at his rooms, we drove to our hotel, where we found lunch upon the table.
Do you not see some loophole, some flaw?
The walls were carefully sounded, and were shown to be quite solid all round, and the flooring was also thoroughly examined, with the same result.
"Quite an interesting study, that maiden," he observed.
"Pray, lie down there and make yourself absolutely at home.
"'It is locked up,' I answered.
We must have a look at it." He opened the case, and taking out the diadem he laid it upon the table.
The culprit is--" "Mr.
There were no signs of violence upon any of these garments, and there were no other traces of Mr.
About sunset, however, their efforts were at last successful, and they subdued the flames, but not before the roof had fallen in, and the whole place been reduced to such absolute ruin that, save some twisted cylinders and iron piping, not a trace remained of the machinery which had cost our unfortunate acquaintance so dearly.
I am very angry indeed, and I have been shamefully used." "I think that I heard a ring," said Holmes.
Very retiring and gentlemanly he was.
Holmes, and I have never seen or heard anything since then to throw any light upon what became of him." "It seems to me that you have been very shamefully treated," said Holmes.
"It is a petty feeling, no doubt, but it hurts my pride.
Passing down the Waterloo Bridge Road we crossed over the river, and dashing up Wellington Street wheeled sharply to the right and found ourselves in Bow Street.
It corresponds with the injuries.
"Hum!" said he, scratching his chin in some perplexity, "my theory certainly presents some difficulties.
'You can hardly expect us to exert ourselves to find another such opening for you.
I could not bear to see the smile fade even for a moment from his face.
He received us in his quietly genial fashion, ordered fresh rashers and eggs, and joined us in a hearty meal.
Wilson.
She is the daintiest thing under a bonnet on this planet.
At first I thought that she had not recognised me, but as I bent over her she suddenly shrieked out in a voice which I shall never forget, 'Oh, my God!
God help me!" He burst into convulsive sobbing, with his face buried in his hands.
Suppose that this man Boone had thrust Neville St.
Even his voice was gentle.
Mr.
At last, when nothing else would do, he went off to France upon the business of the firm, but we went, mother and I, with Mr.
What is this, then?
He answered that the name was new to him.
The trees and wayside hedges were just throwing out their first green shoots, and the air was full of the pleasant smell of the moist earth.
'Omne ignotum pro magnifico,' you know, and my poor little reputation, such as it is, will suffer shipwreck if I am so candid.
Good-afternoon, Miss Stoner.
To-morrow I shall set to work upon your case." "I shall see you at Horsham, then?" "No, your secret lies in London.
It was with his barmaid wife that he had spent the last three days in Bristol, and his father did not know where he was.
Windibank.
Philosophy, astronomy, and politics were marked at zero, I remember.
But, as a matter of fact, seven weeks elapsed.
Holmes.
'You shall not have a farthing from me,' I cried, on which he bowed and left the room without another word.
Now, then!
Merryweather gloomily.
"The Coroner: How was it, then, that he uttered it before he saw you, and before he even knew that you had returned from Bristol?
However, it was too late to alter the matter now, so I locked it up in my private safe and turned once more to my work.
We even traced them as far as Reading, but could get no farther, for they had covered their traces in a way that showed that they were very old hands.
I had seen little of Holmes lately.
Grimesby Roylott," remarked the driver.
I thought I heard a ring." It was, indeed, our friend the financier.
James Windibank," said Holmes.
This way, please!" Slowly and solemnly he was borne into Briony Lodge and laid out in the principal room, while I still observed the proceedings from my post by the window.
That is interesting," said Holmes.
If the young lady has a brother or a friend, he ought to lay a whip across your shoulders.
There are rumours of foul play in the matter, and it is said that the police have caused the arrest of the woman who had caused the original disturbance, in the belief that, from jealousy or some other motive, she may have been concerned in the strange disappearance of the bride.'" "And is that all?" "Only one little item in another of the morning papers, but it is a suggestive one." "And it is--" "That Miss Flora Millar, the lady who had caused the disturbance, has actually been arrested.
Pray proceed." "When my father took over the Horsham property, he, at my request, made a careful examination of the attic, which had been always locked up.
When about a hundred yards from the pool I heard a cry of "Cooee!" which was a usual signal between my father and myself.
I have a confused memory, too, of having been lifted and conveyed somewhere." "What I cannot understand," said I, "is why they should have spared you when they found you lying fainting in the garden.
His whole face sharpened away into nose and chin, and the skin of his cheeks was drawn quite tense over his outstanding bones.
I saw no one near my father when I returned, and I have no idea how he came by his injuries.
But you will find that all I say is really to the point.
"That's better!" said he.
I suppose that I am commuting a felony, but it is just possible that I am saving a soul.
That, however, was out of the question.
Come!
A touch of red in nose and cheeks, with a slight tremor of his extended hand, recalled Holmes' surmise as to his habits.
We must come back to that.
He was urging his son to marry my daughter with as little regard for what she might think as if she were a slut from off the streets.
"Just one hint to you, Lestrade," drawled Holmes before his rival vanished; "I will tell you the true solution of the matter.
"I had gone up to town about an investment, and I met him in Regent Street with hardly a coat to his back or a boot to his foot.
On the very day that I saw him last he cut himself in the bedroom, and yet I in the dining-room rushed upstairs instantly with the utmost certainty that something had happened.
But look at these lonely houses, each in its own fields, filled for the most part with poor ignorant folk who know little of the law.
I have known something of him before." "Evidently," said I, "Mr.
"I have had nothing else to do." "It is fortunate, for you will perhaps be able to post me up.
My friend rose now and paced up and down the room, his hands in his pockets, and an expression of the most profound gravity upon his face.
It was a quarter past six when we left Baker Street, and it still wanted ten minutes to the hour when we found ourselves in Serpentine Avenue.
"Well?" she cried, "well?" And then, seeing that there were two of us, she gave a cry of hope which sank into a groan as she saw that my companion shook his head and shrugged his shoulders.
The second is that the murdered man was heard to cry 'Cooee!' before he knew that his son had returned.
And then I think that what he foresaw happened." "But you have no notion as to what it could have been?" "None." "One more question.
It was a smart little landau which rattled up to the door of Briony Lodge.
"In the bathroom," he answered.
There were six troopers and six of us, so it was a close thing, but we emptied four of their saddles at the first volley.
Now carry out my orders to the letter." As he spoke the gleam of the side-lights of a carriage came round the curve of the avenue.
If I could only bring you down all would be well.
My attention was speedily drawn, as I have already remarked to you, to this ventilator, and to the bell-rope which hung down to the bed.
You then--" Ryder threw himself down suddenly upon the rug and clutched at my companion's knees.
Presently he came to himself once more, very weary and pale-looking.
So then I promised to wait for him to the end of time and pledged myself not to marry anyone else while he lived.
He was brought up and remanded for further inquiries." "So I heard.
Simon in particular.
There is a huge error which it may take some little time to rectify.
"I met him first at the gasfitters' ball," she said.
"Smart fellow, that," observed Holmes as we walked away.
"And now I will show you what is really a very interesting study, Mr.
"Well, would you please, sir, march upstairs, where we can get a cab to carry your Highness to the police-station?" "That is better," said John Clay serenely.
There was no sign of him there.
I struck him down with no more compunction than if he had been some foul and venomous beast.
"At the same time," he remarked after a pause, during which he had sat puffing at his long pipe and gazing down into the fire, "you can hardly be open to a charge of sensationalism, for out of these cases which you have been so kind as to interest yourself in, a fair proportion do not treat of crime, in its legal sense, at all.
It is your commonplace, featureless crimes which are really puzzling, just as a commonplace face is the most difficult to identify.
This fellow will not go wrong again; he is too terribly frightened.
It was a bright, crisp February morning, and the snow of the day before still lay deep upon the ground, shimmering brightly in the wintry sun.
Simon sank into a chair and passed his hand over his forehead.
On the other hand, he has endeavoured to conceal some of these stains upon the felt by daubing them with ink, which is a sign that he has not entirely lost his self-respect." "Your reasoning is certainly plausible." "The further points, that he is middle-aged, that his hair is grizzled, that it has been recently cut, and that he uses lime-cream, are all to be gathered from a close examination of the lower part of the lining.
I am at my wit's end.
There are grounds round it, woods on three sides, and on the fourth a field which slopes down to the Southampton highroad, which curves past about a hundred yards from the front door.
Holmes drove in silence, with his head sunk upon his breast, and the air of a man who is lost in thought, while I sat beside him, curious to learn what this new quest might be which seemed to tax his powers so sorely, and yet afraid to break in upon the current of his thoughts.
Some scaffolding had been erected against the end wall, and the stone-work had been broken into, but there were no signs of any workmen at the moment of our visit.
"You may say before this gentleman anything which you may say to me." The Count shrugged his broad shoulders.
From outside came the occasional cry of a night-bird, and once at our very window a long drawn catlike whine, which told us that the cheetah was indeed at liberty.
There was no truth, Mr.
"Half dazed, I went into the station and asked about the morning train.
Why should I attempt to conceal it?" "Why, indeed?" murmured Holmes.
A gentleman entered, with a pleasant, cultured face, high-nosed and pale, with something perhaps of petulance about the mouth, and with the steady, well-opened eye of a man whose pleasant lot it had ever been to command and to be obeyed.
I suppose that I must have rushed past him into my room.
It is a little souvenir from the King of Bohemia in return for my assistance in the case of the Irene Adler papers." "And the ring?" I asked, glancing at a remarkable brilliant which sparkled upon his finger.
A blow was struck, and in an instant the lady, who had stepped from her carriage, was the centre of a little knot of flushed and struggling men, who struck savagely at each other with their fists and sticks.
Its power was used for political purposes, principally for the terrorising of the negro voters and the murdering and driving from the country of those who were opposed to its views.
"My stepfather's business papers." "Oh!
"Just see how it glints and sparkles.
Vincent Spaulding seemed to know so much about it that I thought he might prove useful, so I just ordered him to put up the shutters for the day and to come right away with me.
Wilson, you would just walk in; but perhaps it would hardly be worth your while to put yourself out of the way for the sake of a few hundred pounds.' "Now, it is a fact, gentlemen, as you may see for yourselves, that my hair is of a very full and rich tint, so that it seemed to me that if there was to be any competition in the matter I stood as good a chance as any man that I had ever met.
I am sure, Mr.
"'The ceremony, which was performed at St.
Sit down in that armchair, Doctor, and give us your best attention." A slow and heavy step, which had been heard upon the stairs and in the passage, paused immediately outside the door.
"I am for west," remarked the plain-clothes man.
Local aid is always either worthless or else biassed.
But there is a ring at the bell, Watson, and as the clock makes it a few minutes after four, I have no doubt that this will prove to be our noble client.
In spite of its youth, it has already a sinister history.
I hope that you have done what I asked you, Jones?" "I have an inspector and two officers waiting at the front door." "Then we have stopped all the holes.
Windibank sprang out of his chair and picked up his hat.
Large sitting-room on the right side, well furnished, with long windows almost to the floor, and those preposterous English window fasteners which a child could open.
Take your pistol, and we will enter Dr.
You may know the strict principles of her family.
We were sitting there in silence when the door opened and a young lady came in.
If you leave, you forfeit your whole position forever.
It was only after a painful and prolonged scene that she was ejected by the butler and the footman.
Did you tell him?" "Yes; and he seemed to think, with me, that something had happened, and that I should hear of Hosmer again.
But you shall have it all just as it occurred.
"You had my note?" "Yes, the lodge-keeper brought it up.
"Theories are all very well, but we have to deal with a hard-headed British jury." "Nous verrons," answered Holmes calmly.
Obviously something had occurred during the morning, then, to cause her to change her mind.
You know what woman's instincts are.
At the time the circumstances made a deep impression upon me, and the lapse of two years has hardly served to weaken the effect.
We should have acted before this.
I used to be able to keep two assistants, but now I only keep one; and I would have a job to pay him but that he is willing to come for half wages so as to learn the business." "What is the name of this obliging youth?" asked Sherlock Holmes.
Clair has entered it never to leave it more.
"'Yours faithfully, "'St.
"Your own little income," he asked, "does it come out of the business?" "Oh, no, sir.
I just made up my mind to run away and explain afterwards.
The smoke and shouting were enough to shake nerves of steel.
Therein lies my métier, and it is just possible that it may be of some service in the investigation which lies before us.
I told him that we would give him a price for the stones he held--£1000 apiece.
If so, how terrible would be the position in which I should find myself!
for J.
I do not know whether the spotted handkerchiefs which so many of them wear over their heads might have suggested the strange adjective which she used." Holmes shook his head like a man who is far from being satisfied.
Now do try to come, and I shall meet you with the dog-cart at Winchester.
Of course I never doubted for a moment that my first duty was now to him, and I determined to do just whatever he might direct.
Four or five minutes afterwards the sitting-room window will open.
I understand that it was on a professional matter that you wished to speak to me?' "'Undoubtedly so.
Having once made up my mind, you know the steps which I took in order to put the matter to the proof.
But this one comes from London, and therefore we cannot count upon delay." "Good God!" I cried.
He and a girl of fourteen, who does a bit of simple cooking and keeps the place clean--that's all I have in the house, for I am a widower and never had any family.
Circumstantial evidence is occasionally very convincing, as when you find a trout in the milk, to quote Thoreau's example." "But I have heard all that you have heard." "Without, however, the knowledge of pre-existing cases which serves me so well.
How do you go back?" "By train from Waterloo." "It is not yet nine.
Unless they are quite new, no two of them write exactly alike.
In each case, not only are the 'e's' slurred and the 'r's' tailless, but you will observe, if you care to use my magnifying lens, that the fourteen other characteristics to which I have alluded are there as well." Mr.
Well, here's your good health landlord, and prosperity to your house.
"On entering the house, however, I examined, as you remember, the sill and framework of the hall window with my lens, and I could at once see that someone had passed out.
The evidence against him was so strong that the case has been referred to the Assizes.
Born in New Jersey in the year 1858.
That is what makes me uneasy.
"I had come to these conclusions before ever I had entered his room.
On the contrary, for a small street in a quiet neighbourhood, it was remarkably animated.
His face flushed and darkened.
I shall look forward to seeing you again this afternoon." She dropped her thick black veil over her face and glided from the room.
It is in New Zealand stock, paying 4½ per cent.
What danger do you foresee?" Holmes shook his head gravely.
It's as true as gospel, for I began as a ship's carpenter." "Your hands, my dear sir.
Oakshott, 117, Brixton Road, egg and poultry supplier.'" "Now, then, what's the last entry?" "'December 22nd.
If Horner were in danger it would be another thing; but this fellow will not appear against him, and the case must collapse.
You will excuse me for a few minutes while I satisfy myself as to this floor." He threw himself down upon his face with his lens in his hand and crawled swiftly backward and forward, examining minutely the cracks between the boards.
'I perceive that all is as it should be.
I had left my chair and was gazing at it over his shoulder.
Prima donna Imperial Opera of Warsaw--yes!
"Ha!
Yet we have not a moment to lose.
You have dishonoured me forever!
He could not explain the true state of affairs without betraying one who certainly deserved little enough consideration at his hands.
I rushed across the bedroom, flung open the window, and looked out.
There are only two, a man and his wife.
No one but Mr.
If this man could afford to buy so expensive a hat three years ago, and has had no hat since, then he has assuredly gone down in the world." "Well, that is clear enough, certainly.
"Precisely so.
I do not think that I have ever seen so thin a man.
What d'you want to frighten a chap for?" He sank his face onto his arms and began to sob in a high treble key.
Then he stepped into the cab, and in half an hour we were back in the sitting-room at Baker Street.
10th.
In Victoria!
I do not think that it is probable that I shall use the carriage to-night." Lestrade laughed indulgently.
It hadn't pulled up before she shot out of the hall door and into it.
Good-afternoon, Lestrade!
I did not care to spend more money in a hopeless attempt at recovering them." "Very naturally.
I could not live there longer without some advice.
"I regret that I have kept you waiting," said I, sitting down in my library-chair.
Its finder has carried it off, therefore, to fulfil the ultimate destiny of a goose, while I continue to retain the hat of the unknown gentleman who lost his Christmas dinner." "Did he not advertise?" "No." "Then, what clue could you have as to his identity?" "Only as much as we can deduce." "From his hat?" "Precisely." "But you are joking.
"'Very well,' said he, 'you shall know all about the machine.' He took a step backward, slammed the little door, and turned the key in the lock.
"Why did you come to me," he cried, "and, above all, why did you not come at once?" "I did not know.
I'll lock it up in my strong box now and drop a line to the Countess to say that we have it." "Do you think that this man Horner is innocent?" "I cannot tell." "Well, then, do you imagine that this other one, Henry Baker, had anything to do with the matter?" "It is, I think, much more likely that Henry Baker is an absolutely innocent man, who had no idea that the bird which he was carrying was of considerably more value than if it were made of solid gold.
George's, Hanover Square, was a very quiet one, no one being present save the father of the bride, Mr.
I've been on his track for years and have never set eyes on him yet." "I hope that I may have the pleasure of introducing you to-night.
seven in.
Sherlock Holmes: "'Lord Backwater tells me that I may place implicit reliance upon your judgment and discretion.
St.
he is the green-grocer who brings our vegetables round.
Those are the principal points about which I wished to be absolutely clear.
"Well, Mr.
So he sat as I dropped off to sleep, and so he sat when a sudden ejaculation caused me to wake up, and I found the summer sun shining into the apartment.
So say the Serpentine-mews, to a man.
I did not wonder at Lestrade's opinion, and yet I had so much faith in Sherlock Holmes' insight that I could not lose hope as long as every fresh fact seemed to strengthen his conviction of young McCarthy's innocence.
come!' she cried breathlessly.
I had formed my conclusions as to the case before our client came into the room." "My dear Holmes!" "I have notes of several similar cases, though none, as I remarked before, which were quite as prompt.
When it was concluded he settled our new acquaintance upon the sofa, placed a pillow beneath his head, and laid a glass of brandy and water within his reach.
There are no further particulars, and the whole case is in your hands now--so far as it has been set forth in the public press." "And an exceedingly interesting case it appears to be.
I endeavoured to tie my handkerchief round it, but there came a sudden buzzing in my ears, and next moment I fell in a dead faint among the rose-bushes.
He knew he was safe with her; but when there was a chance of a husband coming forward, who would ask for all that the law would give him, then her father thought it time to put a stop on it.
Holder," said Holmes, "here is the corner which corresponds to that which has been so unfortunately lost.
One was buttoned only in the two lower buttons out of five, and the other at the first, third, and fifth.
Had this lady who appeals to us for help gone to live in Winchester, I should never have had a fear for her.
'Not at all,' said I, 'I shall be very happy to accommodate myself to your wishes.
"They are coiners on a large scale, and have used the machine to form the amalgam which has taken the place of silver." "We have known for some time that a clever gang was at work," said the inspector.
Your niece knew nothing of such men.
One of the largest stalls bore the name of Breckinridge upon it, and the proprietor a horsey-looking man, with a sharp face and trim side-whiskers was helping a boy to put up the shutters.
"And that is--" "That McCarthy senior met his death from McCarthy junior and that all theories to the contrary are the merest moonshine." "Well, moonshine is a brighter thing than fog," said Holmes, laughing.
"Look there!" said he.
As I came in he gave quite a jump in his chair and turned quickly to Miss Stoper.
"And it did, though they hardly found upon the mud-bank what they had feared to find.
Well, every moment now is precious, so if you feel equal to it we shall go down to Scotland Yard at once as a preliminary to starting for Eyford." Some three hours or so afterwards we were all in the train together, bound from Reading to the little Berkshire village.
He shot a questioning glance at each of us, placed his shiny top-hat upon the sideboard, and with a slight bow sidled down into the nearest chair.
It was nearly ten o'clock before he entered, looking pale and worn.
It was no wonder that it had not been swept away by the tide.
There are several other indications, but these may be enough to aid us in our search." Lestrade laughed.
Naturally, it was to my interest to buy their land before they discovered its true value, but unfortunately I had no capital by which I could do this.
"I suppose that everyone finds his first independent start in business a dreary experience.
There were meetings, and an engagement, which would finally secure the girl's affections from turning towards anyone else.
By the time that their sailing-ship reaches Savannah the mail-boat will have carried this letter, and the cable will have informed the police of Savannah that these three gentlemen are badly wanted here upon a charge of murder." There is ever a flaw, however, in the best laid of human plans, and the murderers of John Openshaw were never to receive the orange pips which would show them that another, as cunning and as resolute as themselves, was upon their track.
Has it returned to life and flapped off through the kitchen window?" Holmes twisted himself round upon the sofa to get a fairer view of the man's excited face.
There will probably be some small unpleasantness.
And you know where they are.
It was the same good friend whose warning I had so foolishly rejected.
Now it was clear to me that our lady of to-day had nothing in the house more precious to her than what we are in quest of.
She writhed as one who is in terrible pain, and her limbs were dreadfully convulsed.
His name is Francis Prosper." "He stood," said Holmes, "to the left of the door--that is to say, farther up the path than is necessary to reach the door?" "Yes, he did." "And he is a man with a wooden leg?" Something like fear sprang up in the young lady's expressive black eyes.
You must not interfere, come what may.
I painted my face, and to make myself as pitiable as possible I made a good scar and fixed one side of my lip in a twist by the aid of a small slip of flesh-coloured plaster.
Give him a dash of brandy.
As we approached, the door flew open, and a little blonde woman stood in the opening, clad in some sort of light mousseline de soie, with a touch of fluffy pink chiffon at her neck and wrists.
I knew my man, however, and I clapped a pistol to his head before he could strike.
I had let myself go, and was hanging by the hands to the sill, when his blow fell.
I'll serve you!" He turned and clattered down the stairs as hard as he could go.
I ran to her and threw my arms round her, but at that moment her knees seemed to give way and she fell to the ground.
All my medical instincts rose up against that laugh.
"I feel it give a little," said he; "but, though I am exceptionally strong in the fingers, it would take me all my time to break it.
Inspector Barton, who had charge of the case, made a very careful examination of the premises, but without finding anything which threw any light upon the matter.
The son, as far as he knew, was in Bristol.
You will leave the papers here, and remember the advice which I have given you.
A prodigiously stout man with a very smiling face and a great heavy chin which rolled down in fold upon fold over his throat sat at her elbow with a pair of glasses on his nose, looking very earnestly at the ladies who entered.
There are several people in the neighbourhood, however, and among them Miss Turner, the daughter of the neighbouring landowner, who believe in his innocence, and who have retained Lestrade, whom you may recollect in connection with the Study in Scarlet, to work out the case in his interest.
I hadn't been at the table ten minutes before I saw Frank out of the window at the other side of the road.
That is what Mr.
I found my father expiring upon the ground, with his head terribly injured.
It was a chestnut." "Tired-looking or fresh?" "Oh, fresh and glossy." "Thank you.
I should be very much obliged if you would slip your revolver into your pocket.
I clambered out upon the sill, but I hesitated to jump until I should have heard what passed between my saviour and the ruffian who pursued me.
The method was no doubt suggested to Clay's ingenious mind by the colour of his accomplice's hair.
My stepfather learned of the engagement when my sister returned and offered no objection to the marriage; but within a fortnight of the day which had been fixed for the wedding, the terrible event occurred which has deprived me of my only companion." Sherlock Holmes had been leaning back in his chair with his eyes closed and his head sunk in a cushion, but he half opened his lids now and glanced across at his visitor.
We got away with the gold, became wealthy men, and made our way over to England without being suspected.
I have no idea what she meant." "American slang is very expressive sometimes.
In this way I am no doubt indirectly responsible for Dr.
We are faddy people, you know--faddy but kind-hearted.
"I cannot waste time over this sort of fantastic talk, Mr.
Oh, don't bring it into court!
They got £4700 for the goodwill and interest, which wasn't near as much as father could have got if he had been alive." I had expected to see Sherlock Holmes impatient under this rambling and inconsequential narrative, but, on the contrary, he had listened with the greatest concentration of attention.
But in avoiding the sensational, I fear that you may have bordered on the trivial." "The end may have been so," I answered, "but the methods I hold to have been novel and of interest." "Pshaw, my dear fellow, what do the public, the great unobservant public, who could hardly tell a weaver by his tooth or a compositor by his left thumb, care about the finer shades of analysis and deduction!
K.
There is no doubt that you have detected and defeated in the most complete manner one of the most determined attempts at bank robbery that have ever come within my experience." "I have had one or two little scores of my own to settle with Mr.
Here are his keys, which are the duplicates of Mr.
I have frequently gained my first real insight into the character of parents by studying their children.
It was something terrible and deadly.
And what do you intend to do?" "In view of your health, nothing.
Suddenly, amid all the hubbub of the gale, there burst forth the wild scream of a terrified woman.
Had he appeared surprised at his own arrest, or feigned indignation at it, I should have looked upon it as highly suspicious, because such surprise or anger would not be natural under the circumstances, and yet might appear to be the best policy to a scheming man.
There were a couple of brace of cold woodcock, a pheasant, a pâté de foie gras pie with a group of ancient and cobwebby bottles.
Seldom goes out at other times, except when she sings.
I was leaning against the wall at the time and looking at the geese which were waddling about round my feet, and suddenly an idea came into my head which showed me how I could beat the best detective that ever lived.
He is round in the stable lane now." "The stable lane?" She raised her dark eyebrows.
You seem most fortunate in having an employee who comes under the full market price.
When I saw how many were waiting, I would have given it up in despair; but Spaulding would not hear of it.
Neville St.
It could only be a small one, or it would have been remarked upon at the coroner's inquiry.
Just as I arrived the door was opened, and we were shown up together to Holmes' room.
And she was afterwards seen walking into Hyde Park in company with Flora Millar, a woman who is now in custody, and who had already made a disturbance at Mr.
Cocksure," said the salesman, "I thought that I was out of geese, but before I finish you'll find that there is still one left in my shop.
She was quiet when she saw that there was no good in making a row." "Did your wife hear all this?" "No, thank goodness, she did not." "And she was seen walking with this very woman afterwards?" "Yes.
Nothing but energy can save you.
"'Some preposterous practical joke,' said he.
For example, you have frequently seen the steps which lead up from the hall to this room." "Frequently." "How often?" "Well, some hundreds of times." "Then how many are there?" "How many?
And yet this John Openshaw seems to me to be walking amid even greater perils than did the Sholtos." "But have you," I asked, "formed any definite conception as to what these perils are?" "There can be no question as to their nature," he answered.
I cannot tell where it came from--perhaps from the next room, perhaps from the lawn.
Who could come to-night?
The other clothes would have followed, but at that moment there was a rush of constables up the stair, and a few minutes after I found, rather, I confess, to my relief, that instead of being identified as Mr.
As I opened my door I seemed to hear a low whistle, such as my sister described, and a few moments later a clanging sound, as if a mass of metal had fallen.
During that time she ran free in a mining camp and wandered through woods or mountains, so that her education has come from Nature rather than from the schoolmaster.
This stone is not yet twenty years old.
"And now as to the villains who seemed to be immediately implicated in the matter.
"'I suppose that you could not possibly whistle, yourself, in your sleep?' "'Certainly not.
"Well, I followed you to your door, and so made sure that I was really an object of interest to the celebrated Mr.
To take the first example to hand, I very clearly perceive that in your bedroom the window is upon the right-hand side, and yet I question whether Mr.
I took the letters in in the morning, so there was no need for father to know." "Were you engaged to the gentleman at this time?" "Oh, yes, Mr.
'But it is so lonely and eerie in this dim light that I was frightened and ran out again.
I have not treated her ungenerously, and she had no just cause of complaint against me, but you know what women are, Mr.
Jabez Wilson laughed heavily.
Holder.
They are not very exacting, after all.
You said that you wished to see me here to avoid scandal." "I thought people would talk if I went to the Hall." "And why did you wish to see me?" He looked across at my companion with despair in his weary eyes, as though his question was already answered.
"No, his friend.
Simon has no property of his own save the small estate of Birchmoor, it is obvious that the Californian heiress is not the only gainer by an alliance which will enable her to make the easy and common transition from a Republican lady to a British peeress.'" "Anything else?" asked Holmes, yawning.
It is no wonder that he and his family have some of the more implacable spirits upon their track.
But for the trained reasoner to admit such intrusions into his own delicate and finely adjusted temperament was to introduce a distracting factor which might throw a doubt upon all his mental results.
I think it was before your time, Watson.
I have no doubt that she has only been to the side gate to see someone, but I think that it is hardly safe and should be stopped.' "'You must speak to her in the morning, or I will if you prefer it.
The dog is let loose at night to prevent him from endeavouring to communicate with her.
"Wedlock suits you," he remarked.
The King may do what he will without hindrance from one whom he has cruelly wronged.
I rose, and, making my excuses, escaped from the house.
There was one wing, however, which appeared not to be inhabited at all.
And, first, one or two questions, Mr.
"There was a little passage in front of me, unpapered and uncarpeted, which turned at a right angle at the farther end.
Yet I could not shake off the vague feeling of dread which it left behind, though the sensation grew less keen as the weeks passed and nothing happened to disturb the usual routine of our lives.
There you are.
Think of the deeds of hellish cruelty, the hidden wickedness which may go on, year in, year out, in such places, and none the wiser.
"If you can do nothing better than laugh at me, I can go elsewhere." "No, no," cried Holmes, shoving him back into the chair from which he had half risen.
My father was absent from home at the time of my arrival, and I was informed by the maid that he had driven over to Ross with John Cobb, the groom.
"See that you keep yourself out of my grip," he snarled, and hurling the twisted poker into the fireplace he strode out of the room.
Holmes left us standing at the door and walked slowly all round the house, across the front, down the tradesmen's path, and so round by the garden behind into the stable lane.
A shock of very bright red hair grew low over his eyes and forehead.
Our gas was lit and shone on the white cloth and glimmer of china and metal, for the table had not been cleared yet.
Fairbank was a good-sized square house of white stone, standing back a little from the road.
You knew that this man Horner, the plumber, had been concerned in some such matter before, and that suspicion would rest the more readily upon him.
This morning he was removed to a cell, and I, after going through all the police formalities, have hurried round to you to implore you to use your skill in unravelling the matter.
"Yes, it must be so.
It is possible that I might have placed them upon record before, but a promise of secrecy was made at the time, from which I have only been freed during the last month by the untimely death of the lady to whom the pledge was given.
It is, of course, a trifle, but there is nothing so important as trifles.
"And who could it be who was her confederate?
I will leave the country, sir.
Then she got better at last, all worn to a shadow, and with her beautiful hair cut off; but that didn't make no change in her young man, and he stuck to her as true as man could be." "Ah," said Holmes, "I think that what you have been good enough to tell us makes the matter fairly clear, and that I can deduce all that remains.
I was very weak, but I have had a good deal to go through." "Perhaps you had better not speak of the matter.
We lunch at Swindon, and I see that we shall be there in twenty minutes." It was nearly four o'clock when we at last, after passing through the beautiful Stroud Valley, and over the broad gleaming Severn, found ourselves at the pretty little country-town of Ross.
At least that was my first impression.
Pa thought I had a decline and took me to half the doctors in 'Frisco.
Dr.
As to the photograph, your client may rest in peace.
And here comes the country surgeon and Mrs.
I have no doubt at all that he had left it there.
This is not such a populous neighbourhood." Lestrade shrugged his shoulders.
It was headed, "March, 1869," and beneath were the following enigmatical notices: 4th.
I thought that I would just ask you whether you had heard it.' "'No, I have not.
It seemed altogether past belief that anyone could make such a will, or that they would pay such a sum for doing anything so simple as copying out the 'Encyclopaedia Britannica.' Vincent Spaulding did what he could to cheer me up, but by bedtime I had reasoned myself out of the whole thing.
Then I rang the bell, and, as I hoped, the assistant answered it.
"I have solved it." "Eh?
"Thank you.
Sherlock Holmes welcomed her with the easy courtesy for which he was remarkable, and, having closed the door and bowed her into an armchair, he looked her over in the minute and yet abstracted fashion which was peculiar to him.
The unusual salary, the curious conditions, the light duties, all pointed to something abnormal, though whether a fad or a plot, or whether the man were a philanthropist or a villain, it was quite beyond my powers to determine.
On the Hatherley side of the pool the woods grew very thick, and there was a narrow belt of sodden grass twenty paces across between the edge of the trees and the reeds which lined the lake.
She is herself the very soul of delicacy.
In this case, however, they have established a very serious case against the son of the murdered man." "It is a murder, then?" "Well, it is conjectured to be so.
Holmes, you will be good enough to explain how it is that I have received a letter from him to-day." Sherlock Holmes sprang out of his chair as if he had been galvanised.
I deserve to be kicked from here to Charing Cross.
It would be to your advantage as well as mine if I might leave the house for five minutes.' "'That you may get away, or perhaps that you may conceal what you have stolen,' said I.
Holmes, and we shall see which gets to the bottom of the matter first." He gathered up the garments, thrust them into the bag, and made for the door.
One of the farms which he held, that of Hatherley, was let to Mr.
Absolutely no clue in them to Mr.
Neville St.
Does it not strike you as a little singular that this McCarthy, who appears to have had little of his own, and to have been under such obligations to Turner, should still talk of marrying his son to Turner's daughter, who is, presumably, heiress to the estate, and that in such a very cocksure manner, as if it were merely a case of a proposal and all else would follow?
"Oh, sir," he cried, "can you tell me where it went to?" "It came here." "Here?" "Yes, and a most remarkable bird it proved.
The door of Briony Lodge was open, and an elderly woman stood upon the steps.
"On the contrary, Watson, you can see everything.
In a man it is perhaps better first to take the knee of the trouser.
Then, glancing quickly round, he straightened himself out and burst into a hearty fit of laughter.
Petrified with astonishment, the lad slipped on some clothes and waited there in the dark to see what would come of this strange affair.
'Why, dash it all!' said he, 'I've let them go at six hundred for the three!' I soon managed to get the address of the receiver who had them, on promising him that there would be no prosecution.
Our visitor glanced with some apparent surprise at the languid, lounging figure of the man who had been no doubt depicted to him as the most incisive reasoner and most energetic agent in Europe.
I shall be happy to do anything that I can to serve you." I could see that Holmes was favourably impressed by the manner and speech of his new client.
It appeared to you to be a simple case; to me it seems exceedingly complex.
"Six out and six back.
She was very independent in little matters like that.
It is there that I shall seek it." "Then I shall call upon you in a day, or in two days, with news as to the box and the papers.
What was he doing there at all?
THE MAN WITH THE TWISTED LIP Isa Whitney, brother of the late Elias Whitney, D.D., Principal of the Theological College of St.
He has one positive virtue.
"It's no use, John Clay," said Holmes blandly.
As to reward, my profession is its own reward; but you are at liberty to defray whatever expenses I may be put to, at the time which suits you best.
I've had one or two little turns also with Mr.
I hardly noticed his appearance.
It is the German who is so uncourteous to his verbs.
He opened the yellow envelope, and then, glancing at the message, threw it across to me.
I think that I must turn to you Watson, for something more solid." "I have very little difficulty in finding what I want," said I, "for the facts are quite recent, and the matter struck me as remarkable.
"Such paper could not be bought under half a crown a packet.
I glanced down.
data!" he cried impatiently.
If she can come to Winchester to meet us she can get away." "Quite so.
"You want to go home, no doubt, Doctor," he remarked as we emerged.
"I shall never see them again!" he cried.
We had driven several miles, and were beginning to get to the fringe of the belt of suburban villas, when he shook himself, shrugged his shoulders, and lit up his pipe with the air of a man who has satisfied himself that he is acting for the best.
"'The sundial in the garden.
"'You blackguard!' I shouted, beside myself with rage.
Holmes.
Clair's house.
"But pray tell me, before we go farther, who it is that I have the pleasure of assisting." The man hesitated for an instant.
"When Dr.
Two days ago some repairs were started in the west wing of the building, and my bedroom wall has been pierced, so that I have had to move into the chamber in which my sister died, and to sleep in the very bed in which she slept.
You will find parallel cases, if you consult my index, in Andover in '77, and there was something of the sort at The Hague last year.
She watched us with a sardonic eye as we stepped from the brougham.
"I have given you the chance.
One day he had met me, and fell into talk about the ways of thieves, and how they could get rid of what they stole.
What can you gather from this old battered felt?" "Here is my lens.
Some letters get more worn than others, and some wear only on one side.
The very noblest in the land may suffer unless some way be found out of this horrible affair." "Pray compose yourself, sir," said Holmes, "and let me have a clear account of who you are and what it is that has befallen you." "My name," answered our visitor, "is probably familiar to your ears.
"Well, Mr.
Briefly, Watson, I am in the midst of a very remarkable inquiry, and I have hoped to find a clue in the incoherent ramblings of these sots, as I have done before now.
I often take advantage of the freedom which it gives.
"'Ten to two.' "Now a pawnbroker's business is mostly done of an evening, Mr.
As I approached the house I saw a tall man in a Scotch bonnet with a coat which was buttoned up to his chin waiting outside in the bright semicircle which was thrown from the fanlight.
what a blind fool I have been!
The name is no doubt familiar to you." "Kindly look her up in my index, Doctor," murmured Holmes without opening his eyes.
We neither of us care for it." "That is unusual in a young girl." "She is of a quiet nature.
But I hear the rumble of wheels.
But then the impossibility of the thing obtruded itself upon me.
I will sit on the side of the bed, and you in that chair." I took out my revolver and laid it on the corner of the table.
This may account also for the obvious fact that his wife has ceased to love him." "My dear Holmes!" "He has, however, retained some degree of self-respect," he continued, disregarding my remonstrance.
"Our quest is practically finished.
"I am afraid, Holmes, that you are not very practical with your deductions and your inferences.
What do you think, Miss Holder?" "I confess that I still share my uncle's perplexity." "Your son had no shoes or slippers on when you saw him?" "He had nothing on save only his trousers and shirt." "Thank you.
It was an Indian cigar, of the variety which are rolled in Rotterdam." "And the cigar-holder?" "I could see that the end had not been in his mouth.
"They have been turning out half-crowns by the thousand.
He rushed down, just as he was, in his bare feet, opened the window, sprang out into the snow, and ran down the lane, where he could see a dark figure in the moonlight.
"Hum!
I then took my gun and strolled out in the direction of the Boscombe Pool, with the intention of visiting the rabbit warren which is upon the other side.
He was a late riser, as a rule, and as the clock on the mantelpiece showed me that it was only a quarter-past seven, I blinked up at him in some surprise, and perhaps just a little resentment, for I was myself regular in my habits.
The ceiling was only a foot or two above my head, and with my hand upraised I could feel its hard, rough surface.
Grimesby Roylott, of Stoke Moran.
Putting his hands into his pockets, he stretched out his legs in front of the fire and laughed heartily for some minutes.
He was clearly so scared by his mischance in breaking the window and by the approach of Peterson that he thought of nothing but flight, but since then he must have bitterly regretted the impulse which caused him to drop his bird.
You see this other page in red ink?
Might I beg that you will break it off." The banker recoiled in horror.
I rang the bell and called for the weekly county paper, which contained a verbatim account of the inquest.
How could my hair have been locked in the drawer?
What do you think of such a commission as that?' "'The work appears to be light and the pay munificent.' "'Precisely so.
"I have my revolver," said I.
"The matter was perfectly simple.
I tell you that.
I am staying there while I conduct the inquiry." "Where is it, then?" "Near Lee, in Kent.
Ah, here it is: "'There will soon be a call for protection in the marriage market, for the present free-trade principle appears to tell heavily against our home product.
I lowered my handkerchief and glanced at Mrs.
"Was the photograph a cabinet?" "It was." "Then, good-night, your Majesty, and I trust that we shall soon have some good news for you.
If this man ordered one, it is a sign of a certain amount of foresight, since he went out of his way to take this precaution against the wind.
"How, in the name of good-fortune, did you know all that, Mr.
"That fellow will rise from crime to crime until he does something very bad, and ends on a gallows.
I was then beginning to be able to form an opinion as to what had occurred.
"Oh, she has turned all the men's heads down in that part.
And now I must fly to my dear boy to apologise to him for the wrong which I have done him.
I already feel it closing in upon me.
By-the-way, since you are interested in these little problems, and since you are good enough to chronicle one or two of my trifling experiences, you may be interested in this." He threw over a sheet of thick, pink-tinted note-paper which had been lying open upon the table.
You have evidently seen more in these rooms than was visible to me." "No, but I fancy that I may have deduced a little more.
Some of them were of the war time and showed that he had done his duty well and had borne the repute of a brave soldier.
"Not yet." "But you have hopes?" "I have hopes." "Then, come.
On the inspector of constabulary informing him that he was a prisoner, he remarked that he was not surprised to hear it, and that it was no more than his deserts.
My wife is fond of a particular shade of electric blue and would like you to wear such a dress indoors in the morning.
I should not be very much surprised if this were he whose step I hear now upon the stair.
I hurried to him, but he passed away without having ever recovered his consciousness.
She has the face of the most beautiful of women, and the mind of the most resolute of men.
"The young lady came to London, then, and you renewed your acquaintance?" "Yes, her father brought her over for this last London season.
A man entered who could hardly have been less than six feet six inches in height, with the chest and limbs of a Hercules.
The 'Cooee!' was meant to attract the attention of whoever it was that he had the appointment with.
It was my coil of hair.
Sherlock Holmes was a man, however, who, when he had an unsolved problem upon his mind, would go for days, and even for a week, without rest, turning it over, rearranging his facts, looking at it from every point of view until he had either fathomed it or convinced himself that his data were insufficient.
My father had fallen over one of the deep chalk-pits which abound in the neighbourhood, and was lying senseless, with a shattered skull.
At the moment when Holmes struck the light I heard a low, clear whistle, but the sudden glare flashing into my weary eyes made it impossible for me to tell what it was at which my friend lashed so savagely.
Moulton, for I am one of those who believe that the folly of a monarch and the blundering of a minister in far-gone years will not prevent our children from being some day citizens of the same world-wide country under a flag which shall be a quartering of the Union Jack with the Stars and Stripes." "The case has been an interesting one," remarked Holmes when our visitors had left us, "because it serves to show very clearly how simple the explanation may be of an affair which at first sight seems to be almost inexplicable.
The skylight above was open, and the prisoner gone.
Angel--was a cashier in an office in Leadenhall Street--and--" "What office?" "That's the worst of it, Mr.
As I passed out through the wicket gate, however, I found my acquaintance of the morning waiting in the shadow upon the other side.
I slipped out of bed, all palpitating with fear, and peeped round the corner of my dressing-room door.
The lady, I think, you have already met." At the sight of these newcomers our client had sprung from his seat and stood very erect, with his eyes cast down and his hand thrust into the breast of his frock-coat, a picture of offended dignity.
Every morning I was there at ten, and every afternoon I left at two.
Holmes was silent and buried in thought with a pained expression upon his face, as one who finds himself in a perplexing position.
We are but preventing her from injuring another.
Of course I might have fled from the house, but my curiosity was almost as strong as my fears.
Here is the first heading upon which I come.
She could trust her own guardianship, but she could not tell what indirect or political influence might be brought to bear upon a business man.
Now, would you have the kindness to go into your room and bar your shutters?" Miss Stoner did so, and Holmes, after a careful examination through the open window, endeavoured in every way to force the shutter open, but without success.
"Of course, in your position of unofficial adviser and helper to everybody who is absolutely puzzled, throughout three continents, you are brought in contact with all that is strange and bizarre.
Windibank came back from France he was very annoyed at your having gone to the ball." "Oh, well, he was very good about it.
"Precisely.
My limbs were weary and stiff, for I feared to change my position; yet my nerves were worked up to the highest pitch of tension, and my hearing was so acute that I could not only hear the gentle breathing of my companions, but I could distinguish the deeper, heavier in-breath of the bulky Jones from the thin, sighing note of the bank director.
A lean, ferret-like man, furtive and sly-looking, was waiting for us upon the platform.
Insensibly one begins to twist facts to suit theories, instead of theories to suit facts.
"Yes, I think we had better do as you suggest." We got off, paid our fare, and the trap rattled back on its way to Leatherhead.
As to Miss Violet Hunter, my friend Holmes, rather to my disappointment, manifested no further interest in her when once she had ceased to be the centre of one of his problems, and she is now the head of a private school at Walsall, where I believe that she has met with considerable success.
You bring Mrs.
You may remember the old Persian saying, 'There is danger for him who taketh the tiger cub, and danger also for whoso snatches a delusion from a woman.' There is as much sense in Hafiz as in Horace, and as much knowledge of the world." THE BOSCOMBE VALLEY MYSTERY We were seated at breakfast one morning, my wife and I, when the maid brought in a telegram.
Do you understand?" "Entirely." "Do not think of revenge, or anything of the sort, at present.
It is introspective, and I want to introspect.
You have been looking a little pale lately.
Perhaps I have trained myself to see what others overlook.
When you raise your cry of fire, it will be taken up by quite a number of people.
It is all dark to me." "But perhaps it may grow lighter as we go.
I understand that you give me carte blanche to act for you, provided only that I get back the gems, and that you place no limit on the sum I may draw." "I would give my fortune to have them back." "Very good.
Whoa, there, whoa!" We had pulled up in front of a large villa which stood within its own grounds.
They were always very careful, I observed, to turn my face away from the window, so that I became consumed with the desire to see what was going on behind my back.
"So they have.
And on the morning of the wedding?" "She was as bright as possible--at least until after the ceremony." "And did you observe any change in her then?" "Well, to tell the truth, I saw then the first signs that I had ever seen that her temper was just a little sharp.
You shave every morning, and in this season you shave by the sunlight; but since your shaving is less and less complete as we get farther back on the left side, until it becomes positively slovenly as we get round the angle of the jaw, it is surely very clear that that side is less illuminated than the other.
This ring--" He slipped an emerald snake ring from his finger and held it out upon the palm of his hand.
But how on earth--" "Oh, tut, tut!
I had almost overcome my pride so far as to go back to the agency and inquire whether the place was still open when I received this letter from the gentleman himself.
It was difficult to realise as we looked at the line of fine shops and stately business premises that they really abutted on the other side upon the faded and stagnant square which we had just quitted.
"You have given orders that Arthur should be liberated, have you not, dad?" she asked.
On ascertaining that his daughter had disappeared, Mr.
I will call at four o'clock in the afternoon, and, should you have any other engagement at that time, I hope that you will postpone it, as this matter is of paramount importance.
He drew up the windows on either side, tapped on the wood-work, and away we went as fast as the horse could go." "One horse?" interjected Holmes.
Rucastle seemed to take no notice of it.
I could manage it better if I were alone.
"This is a map of the Colony of Victoria," he said.
A mole could trace it, and there it vanishes among the reeds.
Perhaps you have yourself formed some opinion?" "Well, there seems to me to be only one possible solution.
As to what it was he feared, we can only deduce that by considering the formidable letters which were received by himself and his successors.
He throws it out, and would have done the same with the other garments had not he heard the rush of steps below, and only just had time to close the window when the police appeared." "It certainly sounds feasible." "Well, we will take it as a working hypothesis for want of a better.
"But a terrible change came over our stepfather about this time.
Mr.
Public disgrace I might have faced, although I am a man whose character has never yet borne a stain.
It is very unlike his usual writing, and yet I know it well." "Dearest do not be frightened.
"Is the poor gentleman much hurt?" she asked.
I dressed hurriedly, for I knew by experience that railway cases were seldom trivial, and hastened downstairs.
That the writer was on board of a ship." "Excellent.
Then it was withdrawn as suddenly as it appeared, and all was dark again save the single lurid spark which marked a chink between the stones.
You must have started early, and yet you had a good drive in a dog-cart, along heavy roads, before you reached the station." The lady gave a violent start and stared in bewilderment at my companion.
He was at work again.
I heard her voice downstairs, but I knew that she could not ascend.
"'Oh, merely a couple of hundred a year, but the work is slight, and it need not interfere very much with one's other occupations.' "Well, you can easily think that that made me prick up my ears, for the business has not been over-good for some years, and an extra couple of hundred would have been very handy.
"In the first place, I may say that I have met, on the whole, with no actual ill-treatment from Mr.
Esq., of San Francisco, Cal., U.S.A.' That is all." "Terse and to the point," remarked Holmes, stretching his long, thin legs towards the fire.
"Pray sit down on the sofa," said Holmes gently.
A man had waited outside the window; someone had brought the gems; the deed had been overseen by your son; he had pursued the thief; had struggled with him; they had each tugged at the coronet, their united strength causing injuries which neither alone could have effected.
George's, Hanover Square, that only half a dozen intimate friends would be invited, and that the party would return to the furnished house at Lancaster Gate which has been taken by Mr.
I called in the inspector and gave him into custody.
It was late before Sherlock Holmes returned.
With a stout bearing, therefore, though her manner had shaken me more than I cared to confess, I still shook my head and declared my intention of remaining where I was.
He looked about him anxiously in the glare of the lamp, and I could see that his face was pale and his eyes heavy, like those of a man who is weighed down with some great anxiety.
Where were we going, and what were we to do?
Down the centre of Baker Street it had been ploughed into a brown crumbly band by the traffic, but at either side and on the heaped-up edges of the foot-paths it still lay as white as when it fell.
"Alas!
'I shall drive out in the park at five as usual,' she said as she left him.
It cost me something in foolscap, and I had pretty nearly filled a shelf with my writings.
Who would have believed it?
Pray step into the cab, and I shall soon be able to tell you everything which you would wish to know." The little man stood glancing from one to the other of us with half-frightened, half-hopeful eyes, as one who is not sure whether he is on the verge of a windfall or of a catastrophe.
"Let me introduce you," he shouted, "to Mr.
"Have you heard anything of the case?" he asked.
For a minute or more the hand, with its writhing fingers, protruded out of the floor.
The Embankment is not on the direct line to the station.
I know some of them.
Be one of them, and you will know all that there is to know.
"'Come, man, come, only three minutes, or it won't be legal.' "I was half-dragged up to the altar, and before I knew where I was I found myself mumbling responses which were whispered in my ear, and vouching for things of which I knew nothing, and generally assisting in the secure tying up of Irene Adler, spinster, to Godfrey Norton, bachelor.
I followed them up and found they led to the hall window, where Boots had worn all the snow away while waiting.
"'Why, what did you think?' I asked.
I don't know him.
Then, again, I have heard it is no use your applying if your hair is light red, or dark red, or anything but real bright, blazing, fiery red.
As far as I can make out, the League was founded by an American millionaire, Ezekiah Hopkins, who was very peculiar in his ways.
ceases to be the initials of an individual and becomes the badge of a society." "But of what society?" "Have you never--" said Sherlock Holmes, bending forward and sinking his voice--"have you never heard of the Ku Klux Klan?" "I never have." Holmes turned over the leaves of the book upon his knee.
Look at the neat little 'Hosmer Angel' at the bottom.
I may want your help, and so may he.
Have you followed me so far?" "It is very clear." "If you remember, Monday was an exceedingly hot day, and Mrs.
I know that she will do it.
When I remembered that you had seen her at that window, and how she had fainted on seeing the coronet again, my conjecture became a certainty.
There would be a noise like a pistol shot.
When you drove home after the concert I called upon Scotland Yard and upon the chairman of the bank directors, with the result that you have seen." "And how could you tell that they would make their attempt to-night?" I asked.
"Done about the same time as the bell-rope?" remarked Holmes.
You are endeavouring to trace some geese which were sold by Mrs.
He was the keeper of a low den in which I used to lodge in Swandam Lane, where I could every morning emerge as a squalid beggar and in the evenings transform myself into a well-dressed man about town.
"The newcomers were Colonel Lysander Stark and a short thick man with a chinchilla beard growing out of the creases of his double chin, who was introduced to me as Mr.
I hope that I make it all plain?' "'I quite follow you,' said I.
St.
Roylott returned and saw us our journey would be in vain.
There was nothing.
Close at his heels came the colonel himself, a man rather over the middle size, but of an exceeding thinness.
But if you have why, then, how could any gentleman ask you to condescend to accept anything under the three figures?
What is it?" "We shall be at the Copper Beeches by seven o'clock, my friend and I.
To be left till called for." My friend tore it open and we all three read it together.
For Christ's sake, don't!" "Get back into your chair!" said Holmes sternly.
"You have it!" he gasped.
I think that I may arrive at my facts most directly by questioning you." "Pray do so." "When did you first meet Miss Hatty Doran?" "In San Francisco, a year ago." "You were travelling in the States?" "Yes." "Did you become engaged then?" "No." "But you were on a friendly footing?" "I was amused by her society, and she could see that I was amused." "Her father is very rich?" "He is said to be the richest man on the Pacific slope." "And how did he make his money?" "In mining.
It must have been a very long time, for the moon had sunk, and a bright morning was breaking when I came to myself.
"'Jephro,' said she, 'there is an impertinent fellow upon the road there who stares up at Miss Hunter.' "'No friend of yours, Miss Hunter?' he asked.
Your duties, as far as the child is concerned, are very light.
"It's a new patient," he whispered.
You said ten miles, I think, sir." "It was an hour's good drive." "And you think that they brought you back all that way when you were unconscious?" "They must have done so.
You remember that the affair of the blue carbuncle, which appeared to be a mere whim at first, developed into a serious investigation.
The whole party proceeded afterwards to the house of Mr.
A series of disgraceful brawls took place, two of which ended in the police-court, until at last he became the terror of the village, and the folks would fly at his approach, for he is a man of immense strength, and absolutely uncontrollable in his anger.
Fresh scandals have eclipsed it, and their more piquant details have drawn the gossips away from this four-year-old drama.
"Holmes, the Scotland Yard Jack-in-office!" Holmes chuckled heartily.
I think that was the chain of events, Mr.
We laid him upon the drawing-room sofa, and having dispatched the sobered Toller to bear the news to his wife, I did what I could to relieve his pain.
If that were true the murderer must have dropped some part of his dress, presumably his overcoat, in his flight, and must have had the hardihood to return and to carry it away at the instant when the son was kneeling with his back turned not a dozen paces off.
At the church door, however, they separated, he driving back to the Temple, and she to her own house.
His dress was rich with a richness which would, in England, be looked upon as akin to bad taste.
It is my belief, Watson, founded upon my experience, that the lowest and vilest alleys in London do not present a more dreadful record of sin than does the smiling and beautiful countryside." "You horrify me!" "But the reason is very obvious.
"Yes, to-day." She stood smiling, holding up a little slip of paper in the air.
As I drove home to my house in Kensington I thought over it all, from the extraordinary story of the red-headed copier of the "Encyclopaedia" down to the visit to Saxe-Coburg Square, and the ominous words with which he had parted from me.
Turn over those papers and arrange the extracts in their order of time, while I take a glance as to who our client is." He picked a red-covered volume from a line of books of reference beside the mantelpiece.
The rooms were carefully examined, and results all pointed to an abominable crime.
There was only one thing in it, but I am sure that you would never guess what it was.
Hers had been cut off, very possibly in some illness through which she has passed, and so, of course, yours had to be sacrificed also.
We would not dare to conceive the things which are really mere commonplaces of existence.
The marks are perfectly fresh.
As to who this prisoner is, I have no doubt that it is the daughter, Miss Alice Rucastle, if I remember right, who was said to have gone to America.
Hosmer Angel." "Why did you come away to consult me in such a hurry?" asked Sherlock Holmes, with his finger-tips together and his eyes to the ceiling.
"When I hear you give your reasons," I remarked, "the thing always appears to me to be so ridiculously simple that I could easily do it myself, though at each successive instance of your reasoning I am baffled until you explain your process.
Then here are the father's feet as he paced up and down.
His chin was cocked upward and his eyes were fixed in a dreadful, rigid stare at the corner of the ceiling.
Three thousand will cover the matter.
What does her clever stepfather do then?
"If you will be good enough to call to-morrow afternoon at three o'clock I should like to chat this little matter over with you." CHAPTER II At three o'clock precisely I was at Baker Street, but Holmes had not yet returned.
All we wish you to do is to examine the machine and to let us know what is wrong with it.' "We went upstairs together, the colonel first with the lamp, the fat manager and I behind him.
When I came to I found that it was still bleeding, so I tied one end of my handkerchief very tightly round the wrist and braced it up with a twig." "Excellent!
Your windows would be visible from there?" "Certainly." "You must confine yourself to your room, on pretence of a headache, when your stepfather comes back.
He had evidently been carried down by two persons, one of whom had remarkably small feet and the other unusually large ones.
She has heard of you, and would have your opinion, though I repeatedly told her that there was nothing which you could do which I had not already done.
He waved his hands." "But it might have been a cry of surprise.
K.'; and then 'Put the papers on the sundial.'" "What have you done?" asked Holmes.
That brought out the first signs of grief that he had shown.
In spite of the attempts of the friends to hush the matter up, so much public attention has now been drawn to it that no good purpose can be served by affecting to disregard what is a common subject for conversation.
His brain is as cunning as his fingers, and though we meet signs of him at every turn, we never know where to find the man himself.
But I'll go home with you.
But, indeed, if you are trivial, I cannot blame you, for the days of the great cases are past.
Holmes, that you can see deeply into the manifold wickedness of the human heart.
A hundred and fifty guineas apiece.
"'It is also my custom,' said he, smiling in the most pleasant fashion until his eyes were just two little shining slits amid the white creases of his face, 'to advance to my young ladies half their salary beforehand, so that they may meet any little expenses of their journey and their wardrobe.' "It seemed to me that I had never met so fascinating and so thoughtful a man.
But what is this written above them?' "'Put the papers on the sundial,' I read, peeping over his shoulder.
Where is your father's place of business?" "He travels for Westhouse & Marbank, the great claret importers of Fenchurch Street." "Thank you.
It seemed to me to be something grey in colour, a coat of some sort, or a plaid perhaps.
A professional case of great gravity was engaging my own attention at the time, and the whole of next day I was busy at the bedside of the sufferer.
"Many men have been hanged on far slighter evidence," I remarked.
It looked as if the pair might take an immediate departure, and so necessitate very prompt and energetic measures on my part.
Can you suggest no explanation?" "I have devised seven separate explanations, each of which would cover the facts as far as we know them.
I have heard of you before.
He appeared to be wrenching at it, or bending it with all his strength.
He gives me hopes." Lestrade shrugged his shoulders.
"For two days after my arrival at the Copper Beeches my life was very quiet; on the third, Mrs.
In a very short time a decrepit figure had emerged from the opium den, and I was walking down the street with Sherlock Holmes.
I met her several times, became engaged to her, and have now married her." "She brought, I understand, a considerable dowry?" "A fair dowry.
Dr.
Fowler." "That was it, sir." "But Mr.
The driver looked twice at such a shabby fare, but I jumped in before he could object.
In ten days I had the money and had paid the debt.
A ventilator is made, a cord is hung, and a lady who sleeps in the bed dies.
"'Death,' said he, and rising from the table he retired to his room, leaving me palpitating with horror.
Simon came to 'Frisco, and we came to London, and a marriage was arranged, and pa was very pleased, but I felt all the time that no man on this earth would ever take the place in my heart that had been given to my poor Frank.
However, I must not sit gossiping here, but must get these disreputable clothes off and return to my highly respectable self." I could see by his manner that he had stronger reasons for satisfaction than his words alone would imply.
It may stop his gossip.
After all, I thought, we are not injuring her.
And this promises to be interesting.
It might be a lover; it might be a husband.
"If you can catch the man, catch him, and let me know when you have done it." "Certainly," said Holmes, stepping over and turning the key in the door.
"He is a hard man," she said, "and perhaps he hardly knows his own strength." There was a long silence, during which Holmes leaned his chin upon his hands and stared into the crackling fire.
Then I saw him scribble on a piece of paper, and I knew that he was writing me a note.
She had gone off with a man, and the man was either a lover or was a previous husband--the chances being in favour of the latter." "And how in the world did you find them?" "It might have been difficult, but friend Lestrade held information in his hands the value of which he did not himself know.
Besides, there were no marks of any violence upon her." "How about poison?" "The doctors examined her for it, but without success." "What do you think that this unfortunate lady died of, then?" "It is my belief that she died of pure fear and nervous shock, though what it was that frightened her I cannot imagine." "Were there gipsies in the plantation at the time?" "Yes, there are nearly always some there." "Ah, and what did you gather from this allusion to a band--a speckled band?" "Sometimes I have thought that it was merely the wild talk of delirium, sometimes that it may have referred to some band of people, perhaps to these very gipsies in the plantation.
Of course he must recall the snake before the morning light revealed it to the victim.
"Yes." "Game for a morning drive?" "Certainly." "Then dress.
The inspector and two men accompanied her back, and in spite of the continued resistance of the proprietor, they made their way to the room in which Mr.
A search was made at once not only of his person but of his room and of every portion of the house where he could possibly have concealed the gems; but no trace of them could be found, nor would the wretched boy open his mouth for all our persuasions and our threats.
You have made your statement very clearly.
"Why?
He was in dreadful earnest and made me swear, with my hands on the Testament, that whatever happened I would always be true to him.
Rucastle took me to a small outhouse which stands near the kitchen door.
"Now, I wonder who the deuce that could have been." CHAPTER III I slept at Baker Street that night, and we were engaged upon our toast and coffee in the morning when the King of Bohemia rushed into the room.
"Then I must begin," said he, "by binding you both to absolute secrecy for two years; at the end of that time the matter will be of no importance.
This barricaded door corresponded clearly with the shuttered window outside, and yet I could see by the glimmer from beneath it that the room was not in darkness.
You have been reading the papers diligently of late, have you not?" "It looks like it," said I ruefully, pointing to a huge bundle in the corner.
He has a passion also for Indian animals, which are sent over to him by a correspondent, and he has at this moment a cheetah and a baboon, which wander freely over his grounds and are feared by the villagers almost as much as their master.
From amid the branches there jutted out the grey gables and high roof-tree of a very old mansion.
'It is K.
I say it is south, for the country is more deserted there." "And I say east," said my patient.
Holder," said Sherlock Holmes rather sternly.
"It is very good of Lord St.
It is most refreshingly unusual.
I will keep your confession, and if McCarthy is condemned I shall be forced to use it.
It would be a sharp-eyed coroner, indeed, who could distinguish the two little dark punctures which would show where the poison fangs had done their work.
The money which my mother had left was enough for all our wants, and there seemed to be no obstacle to our happiness.
And now I beg that you will lay before us everything that may help us in forming an opinion upon the matter." "Alas!" replied our visitor, "the very horror of my situation lies in the fact that my fears are so vague, and my suspicions depend so entirely upon small points, which might seem trivial to another, that even he to whom of all others I have a right to look for help and advice looks upon all that I tell him about it as the fancies of a nervous woman.
They all appear to be adhesive, and there is a distinct odour of lime-cream.
He found, as so many more have done, that the practice is easier to attain than to get rid of, and for many years he continued to be a slave to the drug, an object of mingled horror and pity to his friends and relatives.
Colonel Stark laid down the lamp on the top of a harmonium beside the door.
Hosmer Angel." "Yes, sir.
"You are hungry," I remarked.
and Mrs.
She had married a man named Oakshott, and lived in Brixton Road, where she fattened fowls for the market.
"'Mr.
H.
I do not know what I could do without her.
So far I was clear.
She could not have spoken to anyone when she was out, for she had been in the company of the bridegroom.
His rooms were brilliantly lit, and, even as I looked up, I saw his tall, spare figure pass twice in a dark silhouette against the blind.
Get out of this!" He rushed fiercely forward, and the inquirer flitted away into the darkness.
Hunter.
That is quite settled," said he, rising and putting his lens in his pocket.
"I fished about with a rake.
Becher is an Englishman, and there isn't a man in the parish who has a better-lined waistcoat.
All the afternoon he sat in the stalls wrapped in the most perfect happiness, gently waving his long, thin fingers in time to the music, while his gently smiling face and his languid, dreamy eyes were as unlike those of Holmes the sleuth-hound, Holmes the relentless, keen-witted, ready-handed criminal agent, as it was possible to conceive.
I know that her word is inviolate.
Two years ago, having served my time, and having also come into a fair sum of money through my poor father's death, I determined to start in business for myself and took professional chambers in Victoria Street.
"It may seem to point very straight to one thing, but if you shift your own point of view a little, you may find it pointing in an equally uncompromising manner to something entirely different.
"I had no doubt that the gang of roughs who assaulted me had carried off both my hat and the bird.
'I have been far too generous with you in money matters.' "'You have been very kind,' said he, 'but I must have this money, or else I can never show my face inside the club again.' "'And a very good thing, too!' I cried.
Holder?
And yet there was but one woman to him, and that woman was the late Irene Adler, of dubious and questionable memory.
It may be so in this case, also." "Well, let us hope so.
I have a caseful of cigarettes here which need smoking, and the sofa is very much superior to the usual country hotel abomination.
"Yes, it would have been of no use to anyone had we not done so.
"I cannot see that there is anything very funny," cried our client, flushing up to the roots of his flaming head.
Still, of course, I never dared to leave the room for an instant, for I was not sure when he might come, and the billet was such a good one, and suited me so well, that I would not risk the loss of it.
The events in question occurred in the early days of my association with Holmes, when we were sharing rooms as bachelors in Baker Street.
A precious stone.
"It is so very kind of you both; but indeed I do not know what I should do.
K.
Women are naturally secretive, and they like to do their own secreting.
"He has his own little methods, which are, if he won't mind my saying so, just a little too theoretical and fantastic, but he has the makings of a detective in him.
Holmes, how curious I became as to what the meaning of this extraordinary performance could possibly be.
His brows were drawn into two hard black lines, while his eyes shone out from beneath them with a steely glitter.
He stretched out his long arm to turn the lamp away from himself and towards the vacant chair upon which a newcomer must sit.
As regards your hair, it is no doubt a pity, especially as I could not help remarking its beauty during our short interview, but I am afraid that I must remain firm upon this point, and I only hope that the increased salary may recompense you for the loss.
I should be glad to know what they would be.' "'One child--one dear little romper just six years old.
Do I make myself plain?" "Perfectly so." "The windows of the three rooms open out upon the lawn.
He was an old friend of McCarthy's, and, I may add, a great benefactor to him, for I have learned that he gave him Hatherley Farm rent free." "Indeed!
The ring, after all, proves nothing.
She is an American and came from California with her." "A confidential servant?" "A little too much so.
Depend upon it, there is nothing so unnatural as the commonplace." I smiled and shook my head.
It is precisely for that reason that we are going to Stoke Moran this day.
A few country carts were stirring, bearing in vegetables to the metropolis, but the lines of villas on either side were as silent and lifeless as some city in a dream.
This is what began it all.
"Well, perhaps, after all, it is of some little use," he remarked.
As she swept silently into the room she impressed me with a greater sense of grief than the banker had done in the morning, and it was the more striking in her as she was evidently a woman of strong character, with immense capacity for self-restraint.
Such was the dreadful end of my beloved sister." "One moment," said Holmes, "are you sure about this whistle and metallic sound?
Then there is no more to be done in the matter.
Some, however, have already gained publicity through the papers, and others have not offered a field for those peculiar qualities which my friend possessed in so high a degree, and which it is the object of these papers to illustrate.
Within was a small, square room, in which the three of us could hardly get at one time.
In a few minutes I had written my note, paid Whitney's bill, led him out to the cab, and seen him driven through the darkness.
James's, Evening News, Standard, Echo, and any others that occur to you." "Very well, sir.
"I believe I have the honour of addressing Miss Mary Holder.
"As I grew richer I grew more ambitious, took a house in the country, and eventually married, without anyone having a suspicion as to my real occupation.
"I can quite understand your thinking so." I said.
It has been considered artistic.
"I think, Watson," he remarked at last, "that of all our cases we have had none more fantastic than this." "Save, perhaps, the Sign of Four." "Well, yes.
I could, however, see that his face was deadly pale and filled with horror and loathing.
Then Mr.
It is nearly five now.
"Fancy his having the insolence to confound me with the official detective force!
One was an old woman, whose name is not mentioned, and the other was William Crowder, a game-keeper in the employ of Mr.
The photograph becomes a double-edged weapon now.
Where are the jewels which you have stolen?' "'Stolen!' he cried.
There can be no doubt that the probability--the strong probability--is that the writer was on board of a ship.
"I have seen those symptoms before," said Holmes, throwing his cigarette into the fire.
"And now, Mr.
in height; strongly built, sallow complexion, black hair, a little bald in the centre, bushy, black side-whiskers and moustache; tinted glasses, slight infirmity of speech.
Obviously they have been caused by someone who has very carelessly scraped round the edges of the sole in order to remove crusted mud from it.
"'And be laughed at for my pains.
He was off in one of those hysterical outbursts which come upon a strong nature when some great crisis is over and gone.
One is that the murdered man had an appointment with someone at the pool, and that the someone could not have been his son, for his son was away, and he did not know when he would return.
"It--it's not actionable," he stammered.
I am a dangerous man to fall foul of!
Square, too, quite unusual boots!
Oh, it is so dreadfully still in there!' "'Only that?' said he, looking at me keenly.
Across his lap lay the short stock with the long lash which we had noticed during the day.
"Very sorry to knock you up, Watson," said he, "but it's the common lot this morning.
Faces to the south, then, and quick march!" We passed across Holborn, down Endell Street, and so through a zigzag of slums to Covent Garden Market.
He takes the obvious course of keeping her at home and forbidding her to seek the company of people of her own age.
But I cannot understand them, and I am not easy in my mind about them." "What can you not understand?" "Their reasons for their conduct.
"Not only that, but the signature is typewritten.
Well, Watson, we shall see who will win in the long run.
It's a cold night," said Holmes.
Holmes, I don't know." "Where did he live, then?" "He slept on the premises." "And you don't know his address?" "No--except that it was Leadenhall Street." "Where did you address your letters, then?" "To the Leadenhall Street Post Office, to be left till called for.
You have come up from the south-west, I see." "Yes, from Horsham." "That clay and chalk mixture which I see upon your toe caps is quite distinctive." "I have come for advice." "That is easily got." "And help." "That is not always so easy." "I have heard of you, Mr.
We have already a clue.
It struck cold to our hearts, and I stood gazing at Holmes, and he at me, until the last echoes of it had died away into the silence from which it rose.
I am afraid that I am a little late, but I am not quite my own master, you know.
That is very interesting.
I am somewhat of a fowl fancier, and I have seldom seen a better grown goose." "Certainly, sir," said Baker, who had risen and tucked his newly gained property under his arm.
It is pleasant to me to observe, Watson, that you have so far grasped this truth that in these little records of our cases which you have been good enough to draw up, and, I am bound to say, occasionally to embellish, you have given prominence not so much to the many causes célèbres and sensational trials in which I have figured but rather to those incidents which may have been trivial in themselves, but which have given room for those faculties of deduction and of logical synthesis which I have made my special province." "And yet," said I, smiling, "I cannot quite hold myself absolved from the charge of sensationalism which has been urged against my records." "You have erred, perhaps," he observed, taking up a glowing cinder with the tongs and lighting with it the long cherry-wood pipe which was wont to replace his clay when he was in a disputatious rather than a meditative mood--"you have erred perhaps in attempting to put colour and life into each of your statements instead of confining yourself to the task of placing upon record that severe reasoning from cause to effect which is really the only notable feature about the thing." "It seems to me that I have done you full justice in the matter," I remarked with some coldness, for I was repelled by the egotism which I had more than once observed to be a strong factor in my friend's singular character.
Ha, ha!
Wilson?" "Yes, I have got it now," he answered with his thick red finger planted halfway down the column.
I staggered to my feet and ran with her along the corridor and down a winding stair.
But I'll have a sovereign on with you, just to teach you not to be obstinate." The salesman chuckled grimly.
"Of course, we still have the feathers, legs, crop, and so on of your own bird, so if you wish--" The man burst into a hearty laugh.
Watson.
We called at the door, when the maid, at Holmes' request, showed us the boots which her master wore at the time of his death, and also a pair of the son's, though not the pair which he had then had.
When he was sober he used to be fond of playing backgammon and draughts with me, and he would make me his representative both with the servants and with the tradespeople, so that by the time that I was sixteen I was quite master of the house.
Sit down and let us talk it over." Our visitor collapsed into a chair, with a ghastly face and a glitter of moisture on his brow.
On examining it, however, I found that this deposit was a comparatively small one, and that it formed a link between two very much larger ones upon the right and left--both of them, however, in the grounds of my neighbours.
"'Do you promise, then?' said he at last.
It was the bisulphate of baryta." "No, no, the mystery!" I cried.
I married, too, and though my wife died young she left me my dear little Alice.
"Mr.
Holmes, I wish you would do as much for me.
Turner, of the Hall, is so ill that his life is despaired of." "An elderly man, I presume?" said Holmes.
I heard that, and I came down." "You shut up the windows and doors the night before.
The incident however, was too trivial to relate and can have no possible bearing upon the case." "Pray let us have it, for all that." "Oh, it is childish.
They could only have come from the old man at my side, and yet he sat now as absorbed as ever, very thin, very wrinkled, bent with age, an opium pipe dangling down from between his knees, as though it had dropped in sheer lassitude from his fingers.
Ah, me!
"But I am very much mistaken if this is not Hatherley Farm upon the left." "Yes, that is it." It was a widespread, comfortable-looking building, two-storied, slate-roofed, with great yellow blotches of lichen upon the grey walls.
This is my friend and colleague, Dr.
"Very, indeed.
In the scuffle, your son struck Sir George and cut him over the eye.
As I dressed I glanced at my watch.
All emotions, and that one particularly, were abhorrent to his cold, precise but admirably balanced mind.
Do you feel equal to it?" "Yes; I shall not feel easy until I have told my story." "Then my servant will call a cab, and I shall be with you in an instant." I rushed upstairs, explained the matter shortly to my wife, and in five minutes was inside a hansom, driving with my new acquaintance to Baker Street.
Off I set to him, and after much chaffering I got our stones at 1000 pounds apiece.
"Pray take a seat." "I will do nothing of the kind.
Lestrade showed us the exact spot at which the body had been found, and, indeed, so moist was the ground, that I could plainly see the traces which had been left by the fall of the stricken man.
"I have been at some small expense over this matter, which I shall expect the bank to refund, but beyond that I am amply repaid by having had an experience which is in many ways unique, and by hearing the very remarkable narrative of the Red-headed League." "You see, Watson," he explained in the early hours of the morning as we sat over a glass of whisky and soda in Baker Street, "it was perfectly obvious from the first that the only possible object of this rather fantastic business of the advertisement of the League, and the copying of the 'Encyclopaedia,' must be to get this not over-bright pawnbroker out of the way for a number of hours every day.
It was pierced in the brim for a hat-securer, but the elastic was missing.
Mr.
"By the way, would it bore you to tell me where you got the other one from?
Who were these German people, and what were they doing living in this strange, out-of-the-way place?
"Why," said I, glancing up at my companion, "that was surely the bell.
The panel had closed again behind me, but the crash of the lamp, and a few moments afterwards the clang of the two slabs of metal, told me how narrow had been my escape.
And in this letter you certainly have a very strong piece of evidence to corroborate your view.
John's Wood." Holmes took a note of it.
I understand that this gentleman, your friend, is a man of honour and discretion, whom I may trust with a matter of the most extreme importance.
Holmes, in the conjecture which seemed to us to be probable in your rooms at Baker Street.
It is to recompense you for any inconvenience that we are paying to you, a young and unknown man, a fee which would buy an opinion from the very heads of your profession.
Having done that, we may drive back to our luncheon.
You must get home instantly and act." "What shall I do?" "There is but one thing to do.
My God, what shall I do!
If you will keep the two corner seats I shall get the tickets." We had the carriage to ourselves save for an immense litter of papers which Holmes had brought with him.
The only remaining point was what they were burrowing for.
That is quite cleared up now--though, indeed, it was obvious from the first.
Holmes went to the bureau first and looked hard at the lock.
Clair.
You may walk to the cab, and I shall be with you presently." It was about ten minutes before we regained our cab and drove back into Ross, Holmes still carrying with him the stone which he had picked up in the wood.
I think that those seven weeks represented the difference between the mail-boat which brought the letter and the sailing vessel which brought the writer." "It is possible." "More than that.
You'll know all about it presently.
If they had come from Pondicherry in a steamer they would have arrived almost as soon as their letter.
I implored the colonel to let me out, but the remorseless clanking of the levers drowned my cries.
Suddenly, however, as I ran, a deadly dizziness and sickness came over me.
A few seconds sufficed to satisfy him, for he sprang to his feet again and put his glass in his pocket.
"It is no time for me to hide anything.
When I had listened to all they had to tell, I began to walk up and down near Briony Lodge once more, and to think over my plan of campaign.
I returned the strange hair to the drawer, and I said nothing of the matter to the Rucastles as I felt that I had put myself in the wrong by opening a drawer which they had locked.
It is clear from what that surly fellow said that there are others besides ourselves who are anxious about the matter, and I should--" His remarks were suddenly cut short by a loud hubbub which broke out from the stall which we had just left.
The lady coloured deeply and covered over her injured wrist.
'Mr.
At such times I have seen his face, even on a cold day, glisten with moisture, as though it were new raised from a basin.
Her light grey eyes wandered continually from one to the other, noting every little want and forestalling it if possible.
This fellow is madly, insanely, in love with her, but some two years ago, when he was only a lad, and before he really knew her, for she had been away five years at a boarding-school, what does the idiot do but get into the clutches of a barmaid in Bristol and marry her at a registry office?
"It is a swamp adder!" cried Holmes; "the deadliest snake in India.
I cannot tell.
Holmes," cried our client.
K., and why does he pursue this unhappy family?" Sherlock Holmes closed his eyes and placed his elbows upon the arms of his chair, with his finger-tips together.
But then it occurred to me that there might be a search in the room, and that the clothes might betray me.
I should recommend you also to send a note by the cabman to your wife to say that you have thrown in your lot with me.
Do you not yourself think that he is innocent?" "I think that it is very probable." "There, now!" she cried, throwing back her head and looking defiantly at Lestrade.
Perhaps I had better take a look at the lower windows before I go up." He walked swiftly round from one to the other, pausing only at the large one which looked from the hall onto the stable lane.
But the note itself.
Yet it was quite certain, from the absolute stillness, that we were in the country.
Two days later--that is, on Wednesday last--there is a curt announcement that the wedding had taken place, and that the honeymoon would be passed at Lord Backwater's place, near Petersfield.
Rucastle at once, sacrifice my poor hair to-night, and start for Winchester to-morrow." With a few grateful words to Holmes she bade us both good-night and bustled off upon her way.
Holmes.
Her prolonged absence having caused some comment, her father followed her, but learned from her maid that she had only come up to her chamber for an instant, caught up an ulster and bonnet, and hurried down to the passage.
He had for years been known as a professional beggar, but his life appeared to have been a very quiet and innocent one.
I understand that you have already managed several delicate cases of this sort, sir, though I presume that they were hardly from the same class of society." "No, I am descending." "I beg pardon." "My last client of the sort was a king." "Oh, really!
"I am not quite so bulky, but if he had remained I might have shown him that my grip was not much more feeble than his own." As he spoke he picked up the steel poker and, with a sudden effort, straightened it out again.
"I am sorry that I have not been able to bring your Majesty's business to a more successful conclusion." "On the contrary, my dear sir," cried the King; "nothing could be more successful.
The door itself was locked as well, and the key was not there.
Windigate of the Alpha, at 12s.'" "What have you to say now?" Sherlock Holmes looked deeply chagrined.
Under these circumstances the young man was instantly arrested, and a verdict of 'wilful murder' having been returned at the inquest on Tuesday, he was on Wednesday brought before the magistrates at Ross, who have referred the case to the next Assizes.
John Hare alone could have equalled.
It is the butt-end of the gun as the son stood listening.
Visited Paramore.
I'll swear it on a Bible.
"Witness: It conveyed no meaning to me.
Simon, then, returned from the wedding in a less cheerful frame of mind than she had gone to it.
If we were to come to Stoke Moran to-day, would it be possible for us to see over these rooms without the knowledge of your stepfather?" "As it happens, he spoke of coming into town to-day upon some most important business.
I promised her on my word that I would send him home in a cab within two hours if he were indeed at the address which she had given me.
"He is asleep," said he.
"The Coroner: What was the point upon which you and your father had this final quarrel?
"It is quite certain that he knows nothing whatever about the matter.
You may then walk to the end of the street, and I will rejoin you in ten minutes.
When he reached my sister's side she was unconscious, and though he poured brandy down her throat and sent for medical aid from the village, all efforts were in vain, for she slowly sank and died without having recovered her consciousness.
Oakshott here and I'll answer her, but what have you to do with it?
With a short greeting he seated himself and lit the cigar which had been offered to him.
Mrs.
By Jove!" he continued, flushing up at the sight of the bitter sneer upon the man's face, "it is not part of my duties to my client, but here's a hunting crop handy, and I think I shall just treat myself to--" He took two swift steps to the whip, but before he could grasp it there was a wild clatter of steps upon the stairs, the heavy hall door banged, and from the window we could see Mr.
"Well, it was the beginning of '84 when my father came to live at Horsham, and all went as well as possible with us until the January of '85.
The shutters cut off the least ray of light, and we waited in absolute darkness.
Clair, which lay uncovered as the tide receded.
How could she, a young and timid woman, make her way into such a place and pluck her husband out from among the ruffians who surrounded him?
He chucked it down into a corner and helped himself to a cup of tea.
I saw the man, too, in the gloom." "Do you know him?" "Oh, yes!
"I am surprised that Lord St.
"Hullo!
It was of the same peculiar tint, and the same thickness.
"It is perhaps less suggestive than it might have been," he remarked, "and yet there are a few inferences which are very distinct, and a few others which represent at least a strong balance of probability.
Farintosh, whom you helped in the hour of her sore need.
He had set the engine at work.
Here we are.
Ha!
There could be no possible reason.
A twitch brought away the tangled red hair, and there, sitting up in his bed, was a pale, sad-faced, refined-looking man, black-haired and smooth-skinned, rubbing his eyes and staring about him with sleepy bewilderment.
He ran when he saw his father on the ground.
All these I may sketch out at some future date, but none of them present such singular features as the strange train of circumstances which I have now taken up my pen to describe.
Hatherley's thumb, and that of Colonel Warburton's madness.
"I should be very glad now to go upstairs," said he.
From time to time I heard some vague account of his doings: of his summons to Odessa in the case of the Trepoff murder, of his clearing up of the singular tragedy of the Atkinson brothers at Trincomalee, and finally of the mission which he had accomplished so delicately and successfully for the reigning family of Holland.
But it is too heavy a task.
But if you are found again, then all must come out.
On the right side was a small wooden thicket, which led into a narrow path between two neat hedges stretching from the road to the kitchen door, and forming the tradesmen's entrance.
She was about to renew her entreaties when a door slammed overhead, and the sound of several footsteps was heard upon the stairs.
Windibank gave a violent start and dropped his gloves.
The woman was standing in the aperture, the darkness of the hall behind her, the yellow light from my lamp beating upon her eager and beautiful face.
You are a funny one," chuckled the inspector.
This looks like one of those unwelcome social summonses which call upon a man either to be bored or to lie." He broke the seal and glanced over the contents.
When I was a youngster I have opened it myself with the key of the box-room cupboard.' "He often had a wild way of talking, so that I thought little of what he said.
Rucastle seemed to me to be colourless in mind as well as in feature.
It seems to me, Ryder, that there is the making of a very pretty villain in you.
Clair's story, he was known to have been at the foot of the stair within a very few seconds of her husband's appearance at the window, he could hardly have been more than an accessory to the crime.
Catherine Cusack, maid to the Countess, deposed to having heard Ryder's cry of dismay on discovering the robbery, and to having rushed into the room, where she found matters as described by the last witness.
"But you would not advise me to refuse?" "I confess that it is not the situation which I should like to see a sister of mine apply for." "What is the meaning of it all, Mr.
And which king?" "The King of Scandinavia." "What!
"What can I do for you, Mr.
I have no time!
With a boy's curiosity I have peeped through the keyhole, but I was never able to see more than such a collection of old trunks and bundles as would be expected in such a room.
"I think that this typewritten letter is from you, in which you made an appointment with me for six o'clock?" "Yes, sir.
Holmes.
I thought it as well to have Jones with us also.
Toller, for that is his name, is a rough, uncouth man, with grizzled hair and whiskers, and a perpetual smell of drink.
"Now, Watson," said Holmes, as a tall dog-cart dashed up through the gloom, throwing out two golden tunnels of yellow light from its side lanterns.
He started me off upon the letter A, and then he left me; but he would drop in from time to time to see that all was right with me.
Angel, save that he quotes Balzac once.
"'This is Mr.
He was plainly but neatly dressed, and his age, I should judge, would be nearer forty than thirty.
I have seldom heard him mention her under any other name.
I wired to Gravesend and learned that she had passed some time ago, and as the wind is easterly I have no doubt that she is now past the Goodwins and not very far from the Isle of Wight." "What will you do, then?" "Oh, I have my hand upon him.
It might or might not bite the occupant, perhaps she might escape every night for a week, but sooner or later she must fall a victim.
"Good-morning, madam," said Holmes cheerily.
"'Tell me, Helen,' said she, 'have you ever heard anyone whistle in the dead of the night?' "'Never,' said I.
But my memory and my girl!
Now, I knew that it was not you who had brought it down, so there only remained your niece and the maids.
Twenty-four geese at 7s.
Holmes.
"That circle is drawn at a radius of ten miles from the village.
'Tell Mary that I shall want a fire in my room to-day, and send down to Fordham, the Horsham lawyer.' "I did as he ordered, and when the lawyer arrived I was asked to step up to the room.
Rucastle came out to me, looking as merry and jovial as ever.
"But I would not have let the young man come to harm.
Disregarding my presence, she went straight to her uncle and passed her hand over his head with a sweet womanly caress.
"Are they not fresh and beautiful?" I cried with all the enthusiasm of a man fresh from the fogs of Baker Street.
It was an ideal spring day, a light blue sky, flecked with little fleecy white clouds drifting across from west to east.
I kept all the keys and could go where I liked and do what I liked, so long as I did not disturb him in his privacy.
Sherlock Holmes had not come back yet.
And when he speaks of Irene Adler, or when he refers to her photograph, it is always under the honourable title of the woman.
With your permission, Miss Stoner, we shall now carry our researches into the inner apartment." Dr.
He carried a broad-brimmed hat in his hand, while he wore across the upper part of his face, extending down past the cheekbones, a black vizard mask, which he had apparently adjusted that very moment, for his hand was still raised to it as he entered.
"It is a curious thing," remarked Holmes, "that a typewriter has really quite as much individuality as a man's handwriting.
It is probable that he will be away all day, and that there would be nothing to disturb you.
She came with an excellent character, however, and has always given me satisfaction.
The light flashed upon the barrel of a revolver, but Holmes' hunting crop came down on the man's wrist, and the pistol clinked upon the stone floor.
I can assure you that it has nothing to do with the sad tragedy which followed.
The little which I had yet to learn of the case was told me by Sherlock Holmes as we travelled back next day.
As he stepped up to the cab, he pulled a gold watch from his pocket and looked at it earnestly, 'Drive like the devil,' he shouted, 'first to Gross & Hankey's in Regent Street, and then to the Church of St.
You are probably aware that fuller's-earth is a valuable product, and that it is only found in one or two places in England?' "'I have heard so.' "'Some little time ago I bought a small place--a very small place--within ten miles of Reading.
"And now, Lord St.
She dropped her bouquet as we went towards the vestry.
Simon and his wedding?" "Oh, yes, with the deepest interest." "That is well.
Flora was a dear little thing, but exceedingly hot-headed and devotedly attached to me.
Clair and swore that the presence of the clothes in his room was as much a mystery to him as to the police.
That is important." "Yes, at the mines." "Quite so; at the gold-mines, where, as I understand, Mr.
"Mr.
Then he broke into a low laugh and put his lips to my ear.
Holmes, that you have already made up your mind," said Miss Stoner, laying her hand upon my companion's sleeve.
'May I ask who it was who gave me so good a character?' "'Well, perhaps it is better that I should not tell you that just at this moment.
I have felt like one of those poor rabbits when the snake is writhing towards it.
"Here we are!" said Holmes cheerily as we filed into the room.
She was a nonentity.
Your advice will be altogether invaluable to me." "Pray tell us what has happened to you." "I will do so, and I must be quick, for I have promised Mr.
"And now there is only she to be described.
"I think that I shall have a whisky and soda and a cigar after all this cross-questioning.
"I had," said he, "come to an entirely erroneous conclusion which shows, my dear Watson, how dangerous it always is to reason from insufficient data.
Let us thrust this creature back into its den, and we can then remove Miss Stoner to some place of shelter and let the county police know what has happened." As he spoke he drew the dog-whip swiftly from the dead man's lap, and throwing the noose round the reptile's neck he drew it from its horrid perch and, carrying it at arm's length, threw it into the iron safe, which he closed upon it.
"Witness: I should prefer not to answer.
I started when I saw the name, for it was that of none other than--well, perhaps even to you I had better say no more than that it was a name which is a household word all over the earth--one of the highest, noblest, most exalted names in England.
"It is not an English paper at all.
The instant that I had crossed the threshold the door slammed heavily behind us, and I heard faintly the rattle of the wheels as the carriage drove away.
So were the tinted spectacles and the curious voice, which both hinted at a disguise, as did the bushy whiskers.
It must have bled considerably." "Yes, it did.
What of it, then?
"Only two days ago I was a happy and prosperous man, without a care in the world.
Mother was all in his favour from the first and was even fonder of him than I was.
That the man was highly intellectual is of course obvious upon the face of it, and also that he was fairly well-to-do within the last three years, although he has now fallen upon evil days.
Let me see it." He took up the paper in a listless way, but his attention instantly became riveted, and he gave a little cry of satisfaction.
Clair has most kindly put two rooms at my disposal, and you may rest assured that she will have nothing but a welcome for my friend and colleague.
Then they will not lose a minute, for the sooner they do their work the longer time they will have for their escape.
"Ah," said he, "I forgot that I had not seen you for some weeks.
You can leave your bag." "No, I think that I'll take it." "Very good.
And what did your wife do when she finished speaking to her maid?" "She walked into the breakfast-room." "On your arm?" "No, alone.
There was a group of shabbily dressed men smoking and laughing in a corner, a scissors-grinder with his wheel, two guardsmen who were flirting with a nurse-girl, and several well-dressed young men who were lounging up and down with cigars in their mouths.
Henry Baker, the gentleman with the bad hat and all the other characteristics with which I have bored you.
It would break her heart--it will break her heart when she hears that I am arrested." "It may not come to that," said Holmes.
"Your conversation is most entertaining," said he.
As Cuvier could correctly describe a whole animal by the contemplation of a single bone, so the observer who has thoroughly understood one link in a series of incidents should be able to accurately state all the other ones, both before and after.
It's hard to say his age.
What sundial?' he asked.
What a tissue of mysteries and improbabilities the whole thing was!
I knew that you went out little, and that your circle of friends was a very limited one.
Windibank, that in every case there is some little slurring over of the 'e,' and a slight defect in the tail of the 'r.' There are fourteen other characteristics, but those are the more obvious." "We do all our correspondence with this machine at the office, and no doubt it is a little worn," our visitor answered, glancing keenly at Holmes with his bright little eyes.
The lamps had been lit, but the blinds had not been drawn, so that I could see Holmes as he lay upon the couch.
But 'Cooee' is a distinctly Australian cry, and one which is used between Australians.
And yet, what could have happened?
4th, rooms 8s., breakfast 2s.
His expression, his manner, his very soul seemed to vary with every fresh part that he assumed.
"They have laid the supper, then," he said, rubbing his hands.
"I daresay that if I had put £100 down in front of him, that man would not have given me such complete information as was drawn from him by the idea that he was doing me on a wager.
It is an old trick." "That also I could fathom." "Then they carried me in.
Here it is that this creature takes his daily seat, cross-legged with his tiny stock of matches on his lap, and as he is a piteous spectacle a small rain of charity descends into the greasy leather cap which lies upon the pavement beside him.
And now, you see, I had narrowed the field down considerably.
Did you see Miss Doran on the day before the wedding?" "Yes." "Was she in good spirits?" "Never better.
"There is something in what the fellow says about outdoor work," he remarked, "so I think, Watson, that I must leave you to your papers for a little." It was after five o'clock when Sherlock Holmes left me, but I had no time to be lonely, for within an hour there arrived a confectioner's man with a very large flat box.
He had risen out of his drug-created dreams and was hot upon the scent of some new problem.
6d., cocktail 1s., lunch 2s.
Lestrade of Scotland Yard." "You were not yourself at fault at all, then?" "From the first, two facts were very obvious to me, the one that the lady had been quite willing to undergo the wedding ceremony, the other that she had repented of it within a few minutes of returning home.
But come in.
And now we must be silent and wait." What a time it seemed!
John Clay," said Holmes.
and Mrs.
You must lock yourself up from him to-night.
Lucy Parr, who had brought in the coffee, had, I am sure, left the room; but I cannot swear that the door was closed.
"You had my note?" he asked with a deep harsh voice and a strongly marked German accent.
"I suppose," I remarked, "that, homely as it looks, this thing has some deadly story linked on to it--that it is the clue which will guide you in the solution of some mystery and the punishment of some crime." "No, no.
A lover evidently, for who else could outweigh the love and gratitude which she must feel to you?
"'So,' said he, smiling, 'it was you, then.
How was it done?" He spoke calmly, but I could see that he was deeply moved.
this may save us a visit to Brixton Road," whispered Holmes.
"I am naturally observant, as you may have remarked, Mr.
Jabez Wilson's presence--in other words, that they had completed their tunnel.
The one unpleasant thing about the house, which struck me at once, was the appearance and conduct of the servants.
You know Peterson, the commissionaire?" "Yes." "It is to him that this trophy belongs." "It is his hat." "No, no, he found it.
"'Yes, sir.' "'As governess?' "'Yes, sir.' "'And what salary do you ask?' "'I had £4 a month in my last place with Colonel Spence Munro.' "'Oh, tut, tut!
At present it is not too much to say that it is of such weight it may have an influence upon European history." "I promise," said Holmes.
"I have been waiting so eagerly for you," she cried, shaking hands with us warmly.
The roughs had also fled at the appearance of Peterson, so that he was left in possession of the field of battle, and also of the spoils of victory in the shape of this battered hat and a most unimpeachable Christmas goose." "Which surely he restored to their owner?" "My dear fellow, there lies the problem.
I had already noticed the peculiarities of the typewriter, and I wrote to the man himself at his business address asking him if he would come here.
"'Well,' said I, 'you said you'd give me one for Christmas, and I was feeling which was the fattest.' "'Oh,' says she, 'we've set yours aside for you--Jem's bird, we call it.
People tell me that I have spoiled him.
That is very bad!
"My uncle Elias emigrated to America when he was a young man and became a planter in Florida, where he was reported to have done very well.
"'My sole duties, then,' I asked, 'are to take charge of a single child?' "'No, no, not the sole, not the sole, my dear young lady,' he cried.
"We have had several warnings that an attempt might be made upon it." "Your French gold?" "Yes.
"It is easy for me to be so, for every event of that dreadful time is seared into my memory.
By the way, there does not seem to be any very pressing need for repairs at that end wall." "There were none.
Crime is common.
It is certain, therefore, that my sister was quite alone when she met her end.
"Sir, I cannot find words to thank you, but you shall not find me ungrateful for what you have done.
Young Openshaw shall not long remain unavenged.
Your niece, when you had, as she thought, gone to your room, slipped down and talked to her lover through the window which leads into the stable lane.
Then, when I flash a light upon them, close in swiftly.
And yet even here we may discriminate.
I had begun to take comfort too soon, however; yesterday morning the blow fell in the very shape in which it had come upon my father." The young man took from his waistcoat a crumpled envelope, and turning to the table he shook out upon it five little dried orange pips.
He begged my father to let me live with him and he was very kind to me in his way.
She was there in an instant, and I caught a glimpse of it as she half-drew it out.
My God!
I fear that you have felt the draught.' "'On the contrary,' said I, 'I opened the door myself because I felt the room to be a little close.' "He shot one of his suspicious looks at me.
"God help me!" he cried.
Accustomed as I was to my friend's amazing powers in the use of disguises, I had to look three times before I was certain that it was indeed he.
I had something else to think of." "You did not overhear what they said?" "Lady St.
She was slighted like and had no say in anything, but it never really became bad for her until after she met Mr.
No one is stirring yet, but I know where the stable-boy sleeps, and we shall soon have the trap out." He chuckled to himself as he spoke, his eyes twinkled, and he seemed a different man to the sombre thinker of the previous night.
Your task is confined to that.
"But have you told me all?" "Yes, all." "Miss Roylott, you have not.
"That hurts my pride, Watson," he said at last.
She was rather above the middle height, slim, with dark hair and eyes, which seemed the darker against the absolute pallor of her skin.
"As long as she was on the scene he could not take any action without a horrible exposure of the woman whom he loved.
"He seems a very amiable person," said Holmes, laughing.
I tried to look out of the windows to see something of where we were, but they were made of frosted glass, and I could make out nothing save the occasional bright blur of a passing light.
That bears out his story.
Black Jack of Ballarat was the name I went under, and our party is still remembered in the colony as the Ballarat Gang.
You can see now that it is fastened to a hook just above where the little opening for the ventilator is." "How very absurd!
This case, I presume, contains the coronet.
You know my methods.
We have done a good deal in this direction during the last few years, and there are many noble families to whom we have advanced large sums upon the security of their pictures, libraries, or plate.
Oh, do, do take my word for it that he is innocent.
For goodness' sake don't you ever on any pretext set your foot over the threshold at night, for it's as much as your life is worth.' "The warning was no idle one, for two nights later I happened to look out of my bedroom window about two o'clock in the morning.
No warranties of any kind, expressed or implied, are made to you as to the text or any medium it may be on, including but not limited to warranties of merchantablity or fitness for a particular purpose.
They did not know how to look." "But how will you look?" "I will not look." "What then?" "I will get her to show me." "But she will refuse." "She will not be able to.
For example, what a fool a builder must be to open a ventilator into another room, when, with the same trouble, he might have communicated with the outside air!" "That is also quite modern," said the lady.
It is the precious stone." "Not the Countess of Morcar's blue carbuncle!" I ejaculated.
I was preoccupied with business matters.' "I assured him that I was not offended.
I wish I knew how you reach your results." "I reached this one," said my friend, "by sitting upon five pillows and consuming an ounce of shag.
Perhaps." "And on what day did he meet his death?" "On Monday." "Then perhaps, Mr.
Fowler being a persevering man, as a good seaman should be, blockaded the house, and having met you succeeded by certain arguments, metallic or otherwise, in convincing you that your interests were the same as his." "Mr.
We know something of Saxe-Coburg Square.
"Now then, Mr.
It was not mere curiosity, though I have my share of that.
John Swain cleared.
"I shall jot down the facts.
He walked swiftly and in silence for some few minutes until we had turned down one of the quiet streets which lead towards the Edgeware Road.
We were engaged to each other, Frank and I; but then one day father struck a rich pocket and made a pile, while poor Frank here had a claim that petered out and came to nothing.
I had hardly finished when Holmes returned with the news that the boy was putting in the horse.
My father had a small factory at Coventry, which he enlarged at the time of the invention of bicycling.
Had she seen someone, then?
"I found her more interesting than her little problem, which, by the way, is rather a trite one.
He rummaged in his coat pocket, and, drawing out a piece of discoloured, blue-tinted paper, he laid it out upon the table.
When I rose from my father I looked round for it, but it was gone.
Botany variable, geology profound as regards the mud-stains from any region within fifty miles of town, chemistry eccentric, anatomy unsystematic, sensational literature and crime records unique, violin-player, boxer, swordsman, lawyer, and self-poisoner by cocaine and tobacco.
This is more interesting than it promised to be; quite dramatic, in fact." "Yes; it struck me as being a little out of the common." "They often vanish before the ceremony, and occasionally during the honeymoon; but I cannot call to mind anything quite so prompt as this.
You took me in completely.
Describe it." "Well, she had a slate-coloured, broad-brimmed straw hat, with a feather of a brickish red.
Simon alone, and so we came right away round to his rooms at once.
Westaway was the name of the founder of the business, but it is really managed by Miss Stoper.
The house was just such as I had pictured it from Sherlock Holmes' succinct description, but the locality appeared to be less private than I expected.
The idea of a snake instantly occurred to me, and when I coupled it with my knowledge that the doctor was furnished with a supply of creatures from India, I felt that I was probably on the right track.
"I let you know, then, that I have caught him!" "What!
I confess that the guilt of the banker's son appeared to me to be as obvious as it did to his unhappy father, but still I had such faith in Holmes' judgment that I felt that there must be some grounds for hope as long as he was dissatisfied with the accepted explanation.
Are you sure that everything is fastened?' "'Quite sure, dad.' "'Then, good-night.' I kissed her and went up to my bedroom again, where I was soon asleep.
My heart is lightened already since I have confided my trouble to you.
"Ah, yes," he cried, "here's the end of a long light ladder against the eaves.
I entered my consulting-room and found a gentleman seated by the table.
Holmes cut the cord and removed the transverse bar.
But I want to find out about them, and who they are, and what their object was in playing this prank--if it was a prank--upon me.
I passed round the garden without seeing anything more than random tracks, which I took to be the police; but when I got into the stable lane a very long and complex story was written in the snow in front of me.
Without a word he grasped my arm and hurried me into a carriage, the door of which was standing open.
We will be shown into the sitting-room to wait for the lady, but it is probable that when she comes she may find neither us nor the photograph.
His costume was a peculiar mixture of the professional and of the agricultural, having a black top-hat, a long frock-coat, and a pair of high gaiters, with a hunting-crop swinging in his hand.
That second window is the one that I jumped from." "Well, at least," said Holmes, "you have had your revenge upon them.
His knees were what I wished to see.
What could it be, once more?
We are willing to give £30 a quarter, or £120 a year, so as to recompense you for any little inconvenience which our fads may cause you.
I braved him to do his worst.
James Windibank," said Holmes.
It grew worse as Alice grew up, for he soon saw I was more afraid of her knowing my past than of the police.
K.
You will find me at the Langham under the name of the Count Von Kramm." "Then I shall drop you a line to let you know how we progress." "Pray do so.
How could it be that if it had gone twelve miles over heavy roads?" "Indeed, it is a likely ruse enough," observed Bradstreet thoughtfully.
"Nor from below," said Mr.
"We are close there now," my friend remarked.
You may advise me how to walk amid the dangers which encompass me." "I am all attention, madam." "My name is Helen Stoner, and I am living with my stepfather, who is the last survivor of one of the oldest Saxon families in England, the Roylotts of Stoke Moran, on the western border of Surrey." Holmes nodded his head.
Clair, then it is obvious that no crime has been committed, and that, therefore, I am illegally detained." "No crime, but a very great error has been committed," said Holmes.
"Two days later this same performance was gone through under exactly similar circumstances.
Here is the note written in pencil over here." "And over here is what appears to be the fragment of a hotel bill, which interests me deeply." "There's nothing in it.
And his asking to be allowed to go out for five minutes!
What can I do?" Sherlock Holmes sat down beside him on the couch and patted him kindly on the shoulder.
Even after I became suspicious, I found it hard to think evil of such a dear, kind old clergyman.
I was Isa Whitney's medical adviser, and as such I had influence over him.
It was early in April in the year '83 that I woke one morning to find Sherlock Holmes standing, fully dressed, by the side of my bed.
But the maiden herself was most instructive." "You appeared to read a good deal upon her which was quite invisible to me," I remarked.
I read nothing except the criminal news and the agony column.
The story has, I believe, been told more than once in the newspapers, but, like all such narratives, its effect is much less striking when set forth en bloc in a single half-column of print than when the facts slowly evolve before your own eyes, and the mystery clears gradually away as each new discovery furnishes a step which leads on to the complete truth.
Whatever he wanted he must have, and whatever it was I gave him without question, land, money, houses, until at last he asked a thing which I could not give.
That is just my point.
All was going well when McCarthy laid his grip upon me.
The chimney is wide, but is barred up by four large staples.
"And now I have a very strange experience to tell you.
After that came a long newspaper story about how a miners' camp had been attacked by Apache Indians, and there was my Frank's name among the killed.
I left the house a little after eight o'clock this morning in the character of a groom out of work.
"I would have endured imprisonment, ay, even execution, rather than have left my miserable secret as a family blot to my children.
"Nothing could have been better.
"They must be cunning devils," he exclaimed at last.
As we entered he made neither sound nor motion.
"This is indeed important," said he.
However, I threw all fears to the winds, ate a hearty supper, drove to Paddington, and started off, having obeyed to the letter the injunction as to holding my tongue.
"You have but to name it." "This photograph!" The King stared at him in amazement.
"When he was gone I unlocked my bureau, made sure that my treasure was safe, and locked it again.
"This is a very deep business," he said at last.
In a quarter of an hour we were in Bloomsbury at the Alpha Inn, which is a small public-house at the corner of one of the streets which runs down into Holborn.
Yet I would rather die under my own roof than in a jail." Holmes rose and sat down at the table with his pen in his hand and a bundle of paper before him.
In the middle of the night he heard a soft tread pass his door, so he rose and, looking out, was surprised to see his cousin walking very stealthily along the passage until she disappeared into your dressing-room.
This is what he says: "'My dear Mr.
Hosmer Angel, and keeps off other lovers by making love himself." "It was only a joke at first," groaned our visitor.
We were to meet at the pool midway between our houses to talk it over.
I paced up and down the room, humming a tune under my breath to keep up my spirits and feeling that I was thoroughly earning my fifty-guinea fee.
"Why, dear me, it sounds quite hollow!" he remarked, looking up in surprise.
"Well, I have been twenty-seven years in the force, but this really takes the cake." "If I am Mr.
Holmes had been buried in the morning papers all the way down, but after we had passed the Hampshire border he threw them down and began to admire the scenery.
I think that it is quite clear that there must be more than one of them.
Hence, you see, my double deduction that you had been out in vile weather, and that you had a particularly malignant boot-slitting specimen of the London slavey.
"On the third day after the coming of the letter my father went from home to visit an old friend of his, Major Freebody, who is in command of one of the forts upon Portsdown Hill.
"You could not possibly have come at a better time, my dear Watson," he said cordially.
Her lips, too, were bloodless, but her eyes were flushed with crying.
About five ft.
"His conduct was certainly not very gracious." "Ah, Watson," said Holmes, smiling, "perhaps you would not be very gracious either, if, after all the trouble of wooing and wedding, you found yourself deprived in an instant of wife and of fortune.
Ha!
Now, when young ladies wander about the metropolis at this hour of the morning, and knock sleepy people up out of their beds, I presume that it is something very pressing which they have to communicate.
I have been cut to the quick.
Merryweather, but he is at the head of his profession, and I would rather have my bracelets on him than on any criminal in London.
However, I shall write two letters, which should settle the matter.
"And now it is time that we arranged our little plans.
Now and then I hazarded some remark to break the monotony of the journey, but the colonel answered only in monosyllables, and the conversation soon flagged.
There was no sign of any violence, and the water was but two feet deep, so that the jury, having regard to his known eccentricity, brought in a verdict of 'suicide.' But I, who knew how he winced from the very thought of death, had much ado to persuade myself that he had gone out of his way to meet it.
He waved his hands frantically to her, and then vanished from the window so suddenly that it seemed to her that he had been plucked back by some irresistible force from behind.
During all the years that he lived at Horsham, I doubt if ever he set foot in the town.
"The third on the right is his," said the inspector.
I glanced at him again, and he seemed to know what I was thinking, for he raised his finger to his lips to tell me to be still.
"You did it very nicely, Doctor," he remarked.
Now, then: 'Found at the corner of Goodge Street, a goose and a black felt hat.
Now turn that up in the ledger." Holmes turned to the page indicated.
Roylott then abandoned his attempts to establish himself in practice in London and took us to live with him in the old ancestral house at Stoke Moran.
Twelve struck, and one and two and three, and still we sat waiting silently for whatever might befall.
Would you mind reading me the advertised description of Mr.
"I trust that we are not too late," said he.
Then I made inquiries as to this mysterious assistant and found that I had to deal with one of the coolest and most daring criminals in London.
"No, no, there's life in him!" shouted another.
Just hold out while I fix the derbies." "I beg that you will not touch me with your filthy hands," remarked our prisoner as the handcuffs clattered upon his wrists.
About this girl, Miss Holder.
A shadow of a doubt as to my conduct would bring the matter to an end." "And Irene Adler?" "Threatens to send them the photograph.
Set the pips on McCauley, Paramore, and John Swain, of St.
I know that Miss Stoner has been here.
The same porter was on duty, I found, as had been there when I arrived.
I would call your attention very particularly to two points.
Good-bye; it is just possible that I may have to come over here again before evening." It was obvious to me that my companion's mind was now made up about the case, although what his conclusions were was more than I could even dimly imagine.
They put in the advertisement, one rogue has the temporary office, the other rogue incites the man to apply for it, and together they manage to secure his absence every morning in the week.
If this fail, I shall have recourse to other methods." "What will you say?" "Give me a pencil and that slip of paper.
"I thought it as well," said Holmes as we climbed the stile, "that this fellow should think we had come here as architects, or on some definite business.
For the rest, there was nothing of much importance in the attic save a great many scattered papers and note-books bearing upon my uncle's life in America.
"That which my son himself indicated--that of the cupboard of the lumber-room." "Have you it here?" "That is it on the dressing-table." Sherlock Holmes took it up and opened the bureau.
"After all, Watson," said Holmes, reaching up his hand for his clay pipe, "I am not retained by the police to supply their deficiencies.
I waited until midnight, but there was no sign of his return, so I retired to my room.
I must wire to the King without delay." We had reached Baker Street and had stopped at the door.
"Thank you.
Hosmer Angel vanish from your memory, as he has done from your life." "Then you don't think I'll see him again?" "I fear not." "Then what has happened to him?" "You will leave that question in my hands.
But I am now sleeping in the middle one." "Pending the alterations, as I understand.
Holmes; and I know very well that he could better himself and earn twice what I am able to give him.
And that was how a great scandal threatened to affect the kingdom of Bohemia, and how the best plans of Mr.
See what my wife found in its crop!" He held out his hand and displayed upon the centre of the palm a brilliantly scintillating blue stone, rather smaller than a bean in size, but of such purity and radiance that it twinkled like an electric point in the dark hollow of his hand.
"Of course there can be no doubt as to the nature of this gang." "None at all," said Holmes.
I answer, because I was well convinced that our troubles were in some way dependent upon an incident in my uncle's life, and that the danger would be as pressing in one house as in another.
Then he took down from the rack the old and oily clay pipe, which was to him as a counsellor, and, having lit it, he leaned back in his chair, with the thick blue cloud-wreaths spinning up from him, and a look of infinite languor in his face.
I will explain the state of things to you, as far as I have been able to understand it, in a very few words.
He had nothing a few years ago.
'By the way, I was under the impression that I left this door shut just now.
He will be here in an hour." "Then I have just time, with your assistance, to get clear upon the subject.
4.' "'What, the red-headed man?' "'Yes.' "'Oh,' said he, 'his name was William Morris.
"See here, sir!
"You are engaged," said I; "perhaps I interrupt you." "Not at all.
"You have been cruelly used," said Holmes.
"Why," he shrieked, "you're looking at the wrong side!" "On the contrary, this is the right side." "The right side?
Some of the general public were present, then?" "Oh, yes.
"All has turned out splendidly.
I was frightened of the house, of the man, of the woman, of the servants, even of the child.
The most lay silent, but some muttered to themselves, and others talked together in a strange, low, monotonous voice, their conversation coming in gushes, and then suddenly tailing off into silence, each mumbling out his own thoughts and paying little heed to the words of his neighbour.
I slipped out, put on my things, and followed him.
Were it not for the ugly wound upon my hand, all that had passed during those dreadful hours might have been an evil dream.
Simon marriage case.
Here are your lodgings.
I trust, Mr.
Now, Watson, put your shoulder to it, and we shall see whether we cannot make our way in." It was an old rickety door and gave at once before our united strength.
Very much so." "Then I can wait in the next room." "Not at all.
Sherlock Holmes' quick eye took in my occupation, and he shook his head with a smile as he noticed my questioning glances.
My practice is never very absorbing." "Then put on your hat and come.
"My God!" he cried.
"In that case we had better discuss it in a cosy room rather than in this wind-swept market-place," said he.
"It is a most mysterious business." "As a rule," said Holmes, "the more bizarre a thing is the less mysterious it proves to be.
It is perhaps as well that the facts should now come to light, for I have reasons to know that there are widespread rumours as to the death of Dr.
"That is our signal," said Holmes, springing to his feet; "it comes from the middle window." As we passed out he exchanged a few words with the landlord, explaining that we were going on a late visit to an acquaintance, and that it was possible that we might spend the night there.
Nothing had been said during our drive, but the high, thin breathing of our new companion, and the claspings and unclaspings of his hands, spoke of the nervous tension within him.
Together we rushed into the room.
Every clue seems to slip through my fingers.
After an hour or so, Mr.
"'Tell me all about it,' said I.
It is in a German-speaking country--in Bohemia, not far from Carlsbad.
He laughed very heartily, with a high, ringing note, leaning back in his chair and shaking his sides.
That is important.
It is most important, all the same.
His letters were to be forwarded to 226 Gordon Square; so thither I travelled, and being fortunate enough to find the loving couple at home, I ventured to give them some paternal advice and to point out to them that it would be better in every way that they should make their position a little clearer both to the general public and to Lord St.
"Now, then, mister," said he, with his head cocked and his arms akimbo, "what are you driving at?
THE FIVE ORANGE PIPS When I glance over my notes and records of the Sherlock Holmes cases between the years '82 and '90, I am faced by so many which present strange and interesting features that it is no easy matter to know which to choose and which to leave.
Clearly such a blow must have been struck from behind.
"It's nothing of the kind." "I say it is." "I don't believe it." "D'you think you know more about fowls than I, who have handled them ever since I was a nipper?
Up to a late hour last night, however, nothing had transpired as to the whereabouts of the missing lady.
Has only one male visitor, but a good deal of him.
St.
"Witness: He mumbled a few words, but I could only catch some allusion to a rat.
We got into a cab together, and away we drove to some lodgings he had taken in Gordon Square, and that was my true wedding after all those years of waiting.
No servant would stay with us, and for a long time we did all the work of the house.
Its splendour was in such contrast to his homely ways and simple life that I could not help commenting upon it.
The small matter in which I endeavoured to help the King of Bohemia, the singular experience of Miss Mary Sutherland, the problem connected with the man with the twisted lip, and the incident of the noble bachelor, were all matters which are outside the pale of the law.
Henry Baker' was printed upon a small card which was tied to the bird's left leg, and it is also true that the initials 'H.
"You may place considerable confidence in Mr.
They are important, you understand, without being interesting.
I caught a glimpse of rushing figures, and a moment later the voice of Holmes from within assuring them that it was a false alarm.
This we have now been doing for some time, and in order to help us in our operations we erected a hydraulic press.
"You seem to expect company.
"'How would fifty guineas for a night's work suit you?' he asked.
Every pocket stuffed with pennies and half-pennies--421 pennies and 270 half-pennies.
Sherlock Holmes, for solution during the years of our intimacy, there were only two which I was the means of introducing to his notice--that of Mr.
How did your mother take the matter?" "She was angry, and said that I was never to speak of the matter again." "And your father?
Turner had a considerable household, some half-dozen at the least.
"I went home to Saxe-Coburg Square, and I took the advice of my assistant.
repeated upon it, and 'Letters, memoranda, receipts, and a register' written beneath.
Of course, I did not mind you so much, as you are not connected with the official police, but it is not pleasant to have a family misfortune like this noised abroad.
"In this sinister way I came into my inheritance.
But you've got mixed, Watson, for I have only been here a few hours, three pipes, four pipes--I forget how many.
"'My name,' said he, 'is Mr.
Jump up here.
That is the only drawback which we have found to her, but we believe her to be a thoroughly good girl in every way.
Windibank, your stepfather, returned to France?" "Mr.
"There will call upon you to-night, at a quarter to eight o'clock," it said, "a gentleman who desires to consult you upon a matter of the very deepest moment.
He spoke in a slow staccato fashion, choosing his words with care, and gave the impression generally of a man of learning and letters who had had ill-usage at the hands of fortune.
Hosmer Angel could not come to the house any more." "No?" "Well, you know father didn't like anything of the sort.
It was more a feeling of duty--a feeling that some good might come from my penetrating to this place.
No one knows a word of the matter, but you can imagine how maddening it must be to him to be upbraided for not doing what he would give his very eyes to do, but what he knows to be absolutely impossible.
My life is spent in one long effort to escape from the commonplaces of existence.
Might not the nature of the injuries reveal something to my medical instincts?
I tried to put on as unconcerned an air as possible, but I had not forgotten the warnings of the lady, even though I disregarded them, and I kept a keen eye upon my two companions.
It is a cold night, and I observe that your circulation is more adapted for summer than for winter.
I seem to be in the grasp of some resistless, inexorable evil, which no foresight and no precautions can guard against." "Tut!
I'll take you round to him myself." "I should be immensely obliged to you." "We'll call a cab and go together.
"'Oh, just as you like,' said she, a little huffed.
At any rate, it was there, and I was keenly on the lookout for any chance to pass the forbidden door.
I am Alexander Holder, of the banking firm of Holder & Stevenson, of Threadneedle Street." The name was indeed well known to us as belonging to the senior partner in the second largest private banking concern in the City of London.
Then he suddenly rolled them all into a gigantic ball and tossed them up onto the rack.
"God help me, I would not have them ashamed of their father.
She was flattered by the gentleman's attentions, and the effect was increased by the loudly expressed admiration of her mother.
"You would have done better to have trusted your wife." "It was not the wife; it was the children," groaned the prisoner.
Fowler at a friend's house.
"I am afraid that it will take wiser heads than yours or mine," he remarked, and bowing in a stately, old-fashioned manner he departed.
A clump of copper beeches immediately in front of the hall door has given its name to the place.
"Ah yes, I recall the case; it was concerned with an opal tiara.
Lord St.
See that light among the trees?
"Some ten or twelve, but none which present any feature of interest.
In the present instance I am forced to admit that the facts are, to the best of my belief, unique." The portly client puffed out his chest with an appearance of some little pride and pulled a dirty and wrinkled newspaper from the inside pocket of his greatcoat.
"I was driven over by my employer, who was as amiable as ever, and was introduced by him that evening to his wife and the child.
There is nothing more to be said or to be done to-night, so hand me over my violin and let us try to forget for half an hour the miserable weather and the still more miserable ways of our fellow-men." It had cleared in the morning, and the sun was shining with a subdued brightness through the dim veil which hangs over the great city.
"I have almost every link in my hands, and all the proofs which I could possibly need, so there is little which you need tell me.
Helen!
Beyond the mention of pips, I do not see that it helps us much.
That, however, I shall determine by a very simple test if we have an answer to our advertisement." "And you can do nothing until then?" "Nothing." "In that case I shall continue my professional round.
She became restive, insisted upon her rights, and finally announced her positive intention of going to a certain ball.
"You may not be aware that I have royal blood in my veins.
Might I not escort her to this place?
It is a good seven miles from Eyford Station.' "'Then we can hardly get there before midnight.
Of course it is a nucleus and focus of crime.
McCarthy was walking alone.
As to his dress, it was careful to the verge of foppishness, with high collar, black frock-coat, white waistcoat, yellow gloves, patent-leather shoes, and light-coloured gaiters.
"The case is as plain as a pikestaff, and the more one goes into it the plainer it becomes.
She would rush to secure it.
"This Godfrey Norton was evidently an important factor in the matter.
I may tell you that, besides Mr.
He's a remarkable man, is young John Clay.
You have shown your relish for it by the enthusiasm which has prompted you to chronicle, and, if you will excuse my saying so, somewhat to embellish so many of my own little adventures." "Your cases have indeed been of the greatest interest to me," I observed.
"'Perhaps you will have the kindness to wait in this room for a few minutes,' said he, throwing open another door.
If you but make such reparation as is in your power, by telling us where the beryls are, all shall be forgiven and forgotten.' "'Keep your forgiveness for those who ask for it,' he answered, turning away from me with a sneer.
A sandwich and a cup of coffee, and then off to violin-land, where all is sweetness and delicacy and harmony, and there are no red-headed clients to vex us with their conundrums." My friend was an enthusiastic musician, being himself not only a very capable performer but a composer of no ordinary merit.
Others were of a date during the reconstruction of the Southern states, and were mostly concerned with politics, for he had evidently taken a strong part in opposing the carpet-bag politicians who had been sent down from the North.
Now, on the other side of this narrow wing runs the corridor from which these three rooms open.
These little problems help me to do so." "And you are a benefactor of the race," said I.
But there was no great difficulty in the first stage of my adventure.
Holmes stuck his feet up on the corner of the mantelpiece and, leaning back with his hands in his pockets, began talking, rather to himself, as it seemed, than to us.
I would do it again.
"Ha!
What have we here?
"There is a little nut for you to crack, Master Holmes." "Oh, indeed!" said my friend, blowing blue rings into the air.
This strange, wild story seemed to have come to us from amid the mad elements--blown in upon us like a sheet of sea-weed in a gale--and now to have been reabsorbed by them once more.
Now where did they come from?" He ran up and down, sometimes losing, sometimes finding the track until we were well within the edge of the wood and under the shadow of a great beech, the largest tree in the neighbourhood.
Your wedding was arranged, then, for the Friday.
But I must be prompt over this matter." "What are you going to do, then?" I asked.
"I think that this should do," said he, glancing into the glass above the fireplace.
"The facts are briefly these: Some five years ago, during a lengthy visit to Warsaw, I made the acquaintance of the well-known adventuress, Irene Adler.
And then, realising the dreadful position in which I was placed, I implored him to remember that not only my honour but that of one who was far greater than I was at stake; and that he threatened to raise a scandal which would convulse the nation.
Where are the gems?" "You would not think £1000 pounds apiece an excessive sum for them?" "I would pay ten." "That would be unnecessary.
We have not yet grasped the results which the reason alone can attain to.
It was no wonder that no one was stirring.
Seeing that his passion was becoming ungovernable, I left him and returned towards Hatherley Farm.
I know him from the photograph." The prisoner turned with the reckless air of a man who abandons himself to his destiny.
You need not, however, go to the expense of purchasing one, as we have one belonging to my dear daughter Alice (now in Philadelphia), which would, I should think, fit you very well.
I could see at a glance that she was sick with fear, and the sight sent a chill to my own heart.
The inspector sat down at his desk.
He was trying to utter the name of his murderer.
You have no further evidence, I suppose, than that which you have placed before us--no suggestive detail which might help us?" "There is one thing," said John Openshaw.
He rushes to some secret hoard, where he has accumulated the fruits of his beggary, and he stuffs all the coins upon which he can lay his hands into the pockets to make sure of the coat's sinking.
Turner made his money." "Yes, certainly." "Thank you, Miss Turner.
The matter passed, however, and my father entered into possession of the estate, and of some £14,000, which lay to his credit at the bank." "One moment," Holmes interposed, "your statement is, I foresee, one of the most remarkable to which I have ever listened.
This year our good host, Windigate by name, instituted a goose club, by which, on consideration of some few pence every week, we were each to receive a bird at Christmas.
We may take it, then, that she does not carry it about with her." "Where, then?" "Her banker or her lawyer.
"I think, Watson, that you have put on seven and a half pounds since I saw you." "Seven!" I answered.
Was it not extraordinary?
I fancy that I hear his step now upon the stairs." It was indeed our visitor of the afternoon who came bustling in, dangling his glasses more vigorously than ever, and with a very perturbed expression upon his aristocratic features.
Ferguson appeared to be a morose and silent man, but I could see from the little that he said that he was at least a fellow-countryman.
"Suddenly, without any preliminary sound in the midst of the utter stillness, the door of my room swung slowly open.
He was wrongfully accused of cheating at cards." "He said that you could solve anything." "He said too much." "That you are never beaten." "I have been beaten four times--three times by men, and once by a woman." "But what is that compared with the number of your successes?" "It is true that I have been generally successful." "Then you may be so with me." "I beg that you will draw your chair up to the fire and favour me with some details as to your case." "It is no ordinary one." "None of those which come to me are.
"I see that you have had some great trouble," responded Holmes.
Sherlock Holmes.
The landlady informed me that he had left the house shortly after eight o'clock in the morning.
To me it has been exceptionally so.
"But he'll be gone before you can get him to hospital." "He's a brave fellow," said a woman.
But if it were the maids, why should your son allow himself to be accused in their place?
"Remember, Watson that though we have so homely a thing as a goose at one end of this chain, we have at the other a man who will certainly get seven years' penal servitude unless we can establish his innocence.
In that case, Miss Stoper, I had best inspect a few more of your young ladies.' "The manageress had sat all this while busy with her papers without a word to either of us, but she glanced at me now with so much annoyance upon her face that I could not help suspecting that she had lost a handsome commission through my refusal.
It was a labyrinth of an old house, with corridors, passages, narrow winding staircases, and little low doors, the thresholds of which were hollowed out by the generations who had crossed them.
It is very natural that the pledge of secrecy which we have exacted from you should have aroused your curiosity.
My family itself is so small that it will not take me long to describe it.
Now, you remark in this note of yours, Mr.
I went out, as if on some commission, and I made for my sister's house.
Now, Robert, you have heard it all, and I am very sorry if I have given you pain, and I hope that you do not think very meanly of me." Lord St.
There is no good for you to do.' "'But, madam,' said I, 'I have not yet done what I came for.
I think that there was probably some more tangible cause.
That is why I was so out of breath, for I am a man who takes very little exercise.
It was a magnificent specimen of the jeweller's art, and the thirty-six stones were the finest that I have ever seen.
And, I say, Peterson, just buy a goose on your way back and leave it here with me, for we must have one to give to this gentleman in place of the one which your family is now devouring." When the commissionaire had gone, Holmes took up the stone and held it against the light.
What are you going to do yourself?" "I have one or two things which I would wish to do now that I am in town.
I am lost without my Boswell.
"No, sir, Dr.
This American had started from London when he was young, and he wanted to do the old town a good turn.
Two hours passed slowly away, and then, suddenly, just at the stroke of eleven, a single bright light shone out right in front of us.
"Quite so.
Just beyond it, however, at the far side of the kitchen door, a woman had stood and talked with a man, whose round impressions on one side showed that he had a wooden leg.
With a rending, tearing sound, one of the broad, white stones turned over upon its side and left a square, gaping hole, through which streamed the light of a lantern.
Sherlock Holmes was, as I expected, lounging about his sitting-room in his dressing-gown, reading the agony column of The Times and smoking his before-breakfast pipe, which was composed of all the plugs and dottles left from his smokes of the day before, all carefully dried and collected on the corner of the mantelpiece.
Turner has brought in the tray I will make it clear to you.
Hitherto his orgies had always been confined to one day, and he had come back, twitching and shattered, in the evening.
It was not yet three when we found ourselves in our rooms once more.
capital!' He seemed quite enthusiastic and rubbed his hands together in the most genial fashion.
About 1869 or 1870 he came back to Europe and took a small estate in Sussex, near Horsham.
I confess that I was disappointed.
Simon shrugged his shoulders and raised his eyebrows.
The man in the road was undoubtedly some friend of hers--possibly her fiancé--and no doubt, as you wore the girl's dress and were so like her, he was convinced from your laughter, whenever he saw you, and afterwards from your gesture, that Miss Rucastle was perfectly happy, and that she no longer desired his attentions.
All right, John; we shall not need you.
At first it was but a lurid spark upon the stone pavement.
Holmes whistled.
"I have been making a fool of myself," he gasped.
Duncan Ross was.
"Who would associate crime with these dear old homesteads?" "They always fill me with a certain horror.
"Owe!" He caught up a pen.
The thought had hardly flashed through my mind before he was at the door, pushing his way past her; but she threw her arms round him and tried to hold him back.
"I told you that I would call." He looked from one to the other of us, as if uncertain which to address.
"Will you come with me?" asked Holmes, glancing up.
"It was in the early '60's at the diggings.
There was nothing else save the five dried pips.
But, you know, I have been trained as an actress myself.
Singularity is almost invariably a clue.
Miss Irene, or Madame, rather, returns from her drive at seven.
"He says four o'clock.
I have had nothing since breakfast." "Nothing?" "Not a bite.
"If you won't tell us the bet is off, that is all.
"Holmes!" I whispered, "what on earth are you doing in this den?" "As low as you can," he answered; "I have excellent ears.
This he opened and made a very careful examination of the sill with his powerful magnifying lens.
There's plenty of thread, no doubt, but I can't get the end of it into my hand.
He entered with a weariness and lethargy which was even more painful than his violence of the morning before, and he dropped heavily into the armchair which I pushed forward for him.
Five little livid spots, the marks of four fingers and a thumb, were printed upon the white wrist.
"When evening came I felt that it would be an imprudence to leave so precious a thing in the office behind me.
Old as is the idea, however, there were one or two details which were new to me.
You did not know where to look, and so you missed all that was important.
Logic is rare.
At the second glance, however, I perceived that there was a man standing in the Southampton Road, a small bearded man in a grey suit, who seemed to be looking in my direction.
All this is amusing, though rather elementary, but I must go back to business, Watson.
He has nerve and he has knowledge.
It was one of the main arteries which conveyed the traffic of the City to the north and west.
He said a few words to each candidate as he came up, and then he always managed to find some fault in them which would disqualify them.
Hosmer Angel?" I held the little printed slip to the light.
He would seize the coat, then, and be in the act of throwing it out, when it would occur to him that it would swim and not sink.
I had stooped and was scraping at this to see exactly what it was when I heard a muttered exclamation in German and saw the cadaverous face of the colonel looking down at me.
He has been a disappointment to me, Mr.
That is his main fault, but on the whole he's a good worker.
You say yourself that the horse was fresh and glossy when you got in.
Oh, it drives me half-mad to think of it, and I can't sleep a wink at night." She pulled a little handkerchief out of her muff and began to sob heavily into it.
Come at once.
Good-day to you, Miss Hunter.' She struck a gong upon the table, and I was shown out by the page.
He was a solicitor and was using my room as a temporary convenience until his new premises were ready.
At my cry he dropped it from his grasp and turned as pale as death.
Simon (the younger brother and sister of the bridegroom), and Lady Alicia Whittington.
I have come incognito from Prague for the purpose of consulting you." "Then, pray consult," said Holmes, shutting his eyes once more.
"'Yours faithfully, "'Jephro Rucastle.' "That is the letter which I have just received, Mr.
We waited long for news of the Lone Star of Savannah, but none ever reached us.
As I passed the well-remembered door, which must always be associated in my mind with my wooing, and with the dark incidents of the Study in Scarlet, I was seized with a keen desire to see Holmes again, and to know how he was employing his extraordinary powers.
It was a wild night.
Then it flashed through my mind that the pain of my death would depend very much upon the position in which I met it.
"And since you draw so large a sum as a hundred a year, with what you earn into the bargain, you no doubt travel a little and indulge yourself in every way.
Wilson, has been my partner and helper in many of my most successful cases, and I have no doubt that he will be of the utmost use to me in yours also." The stout gentleman half rose from his chair and gave a bob of greeting, with a quick little questioning glance from his small fat-encircled eyes.
There was never any mystery in the matter, though, as I said yesterday, some of the details are of interest.
Several times during our homeward journey I endeavoured to sound him upon the point, but he always glided away to some other topic, until at last I gave it over in despair.
The salesman nodded and shot a questioning glance at my companion.
Saturday would suit them better than any other day, as it would give them two days for their escape.
Besides, it is not I alone.
"Witness: It is really impossible for me to tell you.
If you were asked to wear any dress which we might give you, you would not object to our little whim.
I got his leave to come into town this morning, though he little knew for what purpose." "Let us have everything in its due order." Holmes thrust his long thin legs out towards the fire and composed himself to listen.
These flat brims curled at the edge came in then.
You understand?" "I am to be neutral?" "To do nothing whatever.
To carry the art, however, to its highest pitch, it is necessary that the reasoner should be able to utilise all the facts which have come to his knowledge; and this in itself implies, as you will readily see, a possession of all knowledge, which, even in these days of free education and encyclopaedias, is a somewhat rare accomplishment.
Now I am left to a lonely and dishonoured age.
I am glad to see that Mrs.
When?" "Yesterday." "But to whom?" "To an English lawyer named Norton." "But she could not love him." "I am in hopes that she does." "And why in hopes?" "Because it would spare your Majesty all fear of future annoyance.
Of these, one, the Lone Star, instantly attracted my attention, since, although it was reported as having cleared from London, the name is that which is given to one of the states of the Union." "Texas, I think." "I was not and am not sure which; but I knew that the ship must have an American origin." "What then?" "I searched the Dundee records, and when I found that the barque Lone Star was there in January, '85, my suspicion became a certainty.
"Witness: Nothing definite.
This man has written the name, and there has then been a pause before he wrote the address, which can only mean that he was not familiar with it.
Monica in the Edgeware Road.
"There is the gravel-drive, and there are the rose-bushes where I lay.
I dropped my gun and held him in my arms, but he almost instantly expired.
The smarting of it recalled in an instant all the particulars of my night's adventure, and I sprang to my feet with the feeling that I might hardly yet be safe from my pursuers.
Pray what steps did you take when you found the card upon the door?" "I was staggered, sir.
"If the police are to hush this thing up, there must be no more of Hugh Boone." "I have sworn it by the most solemn oaths which a man can take." "In that case I think that it is probable that no further steps may be taken.
He has died within ten seconds of being bitten.
Holmes, and not to abuse your patience, there came a night when he made one of those drunken sallies from which he never came back.
'The only point which I could not quite understand was what use you could make of a hydraulic press in excavating fuller's-earth, which, as I understand, is dug out like gravel from a pit.' "'Ah!' said he carelessly, 'we have our own process.
"Look here, Watson," he said when the cloth was cleared "just sit down in this chair and let me preach to you for a little.
"On June 3rd, that is, on Monday last, McCarthy left his house at Hatherley about three in the afternoon and walked down to the Boscombe Pool, which is a small lake formed by the spreading out of the stream which runs down the Boscombe Valley.
Colonel Lysander Stark had said that it was only seven miles, but I should think, from the rate that we seemed to go, and from the time that we took, that it must have been nearer twelve.
Is that your hat, Mr.
"Come in!" said Holmes.
Duncan Ross, and I am myself one of the pensioners upon the fund left by our noble benefactor.
You see, Mr.
The machine goes readily enough, but there is some stiffness in the working of it, and it has lost a little of its force.
Wilson, that I was a red-headed man.' "'Why that?' I asks.
It was no uncommon thing for him to be away for days and nights on end when he was hot upon a scent, so that his lateness caused me no surprise.
'I should be able to look after that for you.' "'What would be the hours?' I asked.
Have just been wired for from the west of England in connection with Boscombe Valley tragedy.
Hatherley," said he.
I leave a photograph which he might care to possess; and I remain, dear Mr.
"Do you know, Watson," said Holmes as we sat together in the gathering darkness, "I have really some scruples as to taking you to-night.
As to my own case, I am ready to give you any information which may assist you in forming an opinion." "Thank you.
Simon, of course I'd have done my duty by him.
I should like to know who sold you the geese which you supplied to the Alpha." "Well then, I shan't tell you.
Through the gloom one could dimly catch a glimpse of bodies lying in strange fantastic poses, bowed shoulders, bent knees, heads thrown back, and chins pointing upward, with here and there a dark, lack-lustre eye turned upon the newcomer.
I was overwhelmed by the honour and attempted, when he entered, to say so, but he plunged at once into business with the air of a man who wishes to hurry quickly through a disagreeable task.
I surprised you by beating upon the pavement with my stick.
Oh, Heaven bless you!" "No more words.
"Good heavens!" she cried, "he has followed me, then." "So it appears." "He is so cunning that I never know when I am safe from him.
Send him to jail now, and you make him a jail-bird for life.
She is my niece; but when my brother died five years ago and left her alone in the world I adopted her, and have looked upon her ever since as my daughter.
On the very first day that I was at the Copper Beeches, Mr.
"'Yes, I promise.' "'Absolute and complete silence before, during, and after?
When these hot fits were over, however, he would rush tumultuously in at the door and lock and bar it behind him, like a man who can brazen it out no longer against the terror which lies at the roots of his soul.
It was in the summer of '89, not long after my marriage, that the events occurred which I am now about to summarise.
They are the devil's pet baits.
I have determined, therefore, to call upon you and to consult you in reference to the very painful event which has occurred in connection with my wedding.
I don't think I ever drove faster, but the others were there before us.
You have heard me remark that the strangest and most unique things are very often connected not with the larger but with the smaller crimes, and occasionally, indeed, where there is room for doubt whether any positive crime has been committed.
It is the five miles of country which makes the danger.
Head attendant at the Hotel Cosmopolitan.
"It means that it is all over," Holmes answered.
I am saved!" The reaction of joy was as passionate as his grief had been, and he hugged his recovered gems to his bosom.
To-day is Saturday, and I hope that by Monday we may come to a conclusion." "Well, Watson," said Holmes when our visitor had left us, "what do you make of it all?" "I make nothing of it," I answered frankly.
"The cases which come to light in the papers are, as a rule, bald enough, and vulgar enough.
Born in 1846.' He's forty-one years of age, which is mature for marriage.
As the daughter could not have been less than twenty, I can quite imagine that her position must have been uncomfortable with her father's young wife.
"Here is the foresight," said he putting his finger upon the little disc and loop of the hat-securer.
You remember in her statement she said that her sister could smell Dr.
Simon very mercifully and thank our stars that we are never likely to find ourselves in the same position.
A man dying from a sudden blow does not commonly become delirious.
Simon has been thrown into the greatest consternation by the strange and painful episodes which have taken place in connection with his wedding.
He was lounging upon the sofa in a purple dressing-gown, a pipe-rack within his reach upon the right, and a pile of crumpled morning papers, evidently newly studied, near at hand.
St.
Even a wife's eyes could not pierce so complete a disguise.
"He was in the house about half an hour, and I could catch glimpses of him in the windows of the sitting-room, pacing up and down, talking excitedly, and waving his arms.
So and so, of Ballarat." "It is wonderful!" I exclaimed.
The telegram which we eventually received came late one night just as I was thinking of turning in and Holmes was settling down to one of those all-night chemical researches which he frequently indulged in, when I would leave him stooping over a retort and a test-tube at night and find him in the same position when I came down to breakfast in the morning.
Is it not a pity that she was not on my level?" "From what I have seen of the lady she seems indeed to be on a very different level to your Majesty," said Holmes coldly.
And this stone?" "Ah, yes, I shall keep the stone.
Do you note the peculiar construction of the sentence--'This account of you we have from all quarters received.' A Frenchman or Russian could not have written that.
But which of these is correct can only be determined by the fresh information which we shall no doubt find waiting for us.
Find what I owe, Watson.
Where does the thing come from?' "'From Dundee,' I answered, glancing at the postmark.
Merryweather, we passed down a narrow passage and through a side door, which he opened for us.
I did not know what to do.
Too narrow for anyone to pass through." "As you both locked your doors at night, your rooms were unapproachable from that side.
I have no one to turn to--none, save only one, who cares for me, and he, poor fellow, can be of little aid.
Holmes.
She had a considerable sum of money--not less than £1000 a year--and this she bequeathed to Dr.
I hurled it out of the window, and it disappeared into the Thames.
smack!
And now I will make the thing clear to you; it has been a long time in the acting, but will not take me long to tell.
I suppose you know what you have got?" "A diamond, sir?
The latter is always instructive.
The place we want must be somewhere near that line.
There was a moment's delay, but the gentleman in the pew handed it up to her again, and it did not appear to be the worse for the fall.
Gone, too, was the horrid scar which had seamed it across, and the twisted lip which had given the repulsive sneer to the face!
'What have I to do with sundials and papers?
"You can easily imagine, Mr.
But why?' "'Because during the last few nights I have always, about three in the morning, heard a low, clear whistle.
You have worked with it, and the muscles are more developed." "Well, the snuff, then, and the Freemasonry?" "I won't insult your intelligence by telling you how I read that, especially as, rather against the strict rules of your order, you use an arc-and-compass breastpin." "Ah, of course, I forgot that.
The chances are that she would be as averse to its being seen by Mr.
Jabez Wilson here has been good enough to call upon me this morning, and to begin a narrative which promises to be one of the most singular which I have listened to for some time.
It was mere chance that he was within earshot.
Should it prove to be an interesting case, you would, I am sure, wish to follow it from the outset.
I traced her!
"'Lord Robert Walsingham de Vere St.
"No good news?" "None." "No bad?" "No." "Thank God for that.
Grit in a sensitive instrument, or a crack in one of his own high-power lenses, would not be more disturbing than a strong emotion in a nature such as his.
"I only wish that you could come with me, Watson, but I fear that it won't do.
"Well, I thought over the matter all day, and by evening I was in low spirits again; for I had quite persuaded myself that the whole affair must be some great hoax or fraud, though what its object might be I could not imagine.
Holmes walked slowly round and examined each and all of them with the keenest interest.
Holmes, but when I got to that address it was a manufactory of artificial knee-caps, and no one in it had ever heard of either Mr.
The last squire dragged out his existence there, living the horrible life of an aristocratic pauper; but his only son, my stepfather, seeing that he must adapt himself to the new conditions, obtained an advance from a relative, which enabled him to take a medical degree and went out to Calcutta, where, by his professional skill and his force of character, he established a large practice.
"He is a man who leads a sedentary life, goes out little, is out of training entirely, is middle-aged, has grizzled hair which he has had cut within the last few days, and which he anoints with lime-cream.
I laid the two tresses together, and I assure you that they were identical.
What did the police think of the noise which awoke you from your sleep?" "They considered that it might be caused by Arthur's closing his bedroom door." "A likely story!
"It is due at Winchester at 11.30." "That will do very nicely.
You do not mean bodies?" "Ay, bodies, Watson.
Puzzle as I would, I could make nothing at all of what it meant.
"Thank you!" said Holmes, folding up the paper and returning it to our visitor.
You want to know what became of those geese?" "Yes, sir." "Or rather, I fancy, of that goose.
There were thirty-six ships of fair tonnage which were reported there during those months.
They still live with their old servants, who probably know so much of Rucastle's past life that he finds it difficult to part from them.
All was as we had seen it in the daytime.
I have been at work upon it all day." "And very wet it seems to have made you," said Holmes laying his hand upon the arm of the pea-jacket.
Sherlock Holmes sat silent for a few minutes with his fingertips still pressed together, his legs stretched out in front of him, and his gaze directed upward to the ceiling.
K.!' he shrieked, and then, 'My God, my God, my sins have overtaken me!' "'What is it, uncle?' I cried.
And now, Doctor, we've done our work, so it's time we had some play.
"Who are you, then?
The whole garden has already been minutely examined." "Now, my dear sir," said Holmes.
Then he followed a pathway through the wood until he came to the highroad, where all traces were lost.
It was I.
The case would then never go into court at all." "God bless you!" cried the prisoner passionately.
"I feel that time is of value," said he; "that is why I hastened here when the police inspector suggested that I should secure your co-operation.
He was, as the inspector had said, extremely dirty, but the grime which covered his face could not conceal its repulsive ugliness.
The largest landed proprietor in that part is a Mr.
I wasn't best pleased, Mr.
Holmes stooped to the water-jug, moistened his sponge, and then rubbed it twice vigorously across and down the prisoner's face.
It was close upon four before the door opened, and a drunken-looking groom, ill-kempt and side-whiskered, with an inflamed face and disreputable clothes, walked into the room.
"There is your hat, then, and there your bird," said he.
There is Mortimer's, the tobacconist, the little newspaper shop, the Coburg branch of the City and Suburban Bank, the Vegetarian Restaurant, and McFarlane's carriage-building depot.
there has been an enclosure here!" "Yes, there was a ring.
"I had a friend once called Maudsley, who went to the bad, and has just been serving his time in Pentonville.
It would be a pity to miss it." "But your client--" "Never mind him.
There was no rest for me, no peace, no forgetfulness; turn where I would, there was his cunning, grinning face at my elbow.
Step into my room here." It was a small, office-like room, with a huge ledger upon the table, and a telephone projecting from the wall.
'Perhaps we had better proceed to business, then,' said he.
"I will tell you it just as it happened, sir," said he.
The initials were, of course, of the highest importance, but more valuable still was it to know that within a week he had settled his bill at one of the most select London hotels." "How did you deduce the select?" "By the select prices.
I took a few of my friends into the secret, however, and they suggested that we should quietly and secretly work our own little deposit and that in this way we should earn the money which would enable us to buy the neighbouring fields.
They were evidently all deserted.
Then he closed the locket and handed it back to Lord St.
Here is a pen.
"There are three hundred pounds in gold and seven hundred in notes," he said.
"I can't make bricks without clay." And yet he would always wind up by muttering that no sister of his should ever have accepted such a situation.
Simon.' "It is dated from Grosvenor Mansions, written with a quill pen, and the noble lord has had the misfortune to get a smear of ink upon the outer side of his right little finger," remarked Holmes as he folded up the epistle.
It was so small that a rat could hardly pass through." "I knew that we should find a ventilator before ever we came to Stoke Moran." "My dear Holmes!" "Oh, yes, I did.
Apply in person on Monday, at eleven o'clock, to Duncan Ross, at the offices of the League, 7 Pope's Court, Fleet Street." "What on earth does this mean?" I ejaculated after I had twice read over the extraordinary announcement.
It is just possible, however, that that also may not be wanting in this new investigation.
Then the fact that the two men were never together, but that the one always appeared when the other was away, was suggestive.
I have some account of the matter here, I believe." He rummaged amid his newspapers, glancing over the dates, until at last he smoothed one out, doubled it over, and read the following paragraph: "Hotel Cosmopolitan Jewel Robbery.
"No, no, my girl, the matter must be probed to the bottom." "But I am so sure that he is innocent.
"'No, I know no one in these parts.' "'Dear me!
I am not a very heavy sleeper, and the anxiety in my mind tended, no doubt, to make me even less so than usual.
There is no other,' said I; 'but the papers must be those that are destroyed.' "'Pooh!' said he, gripping hard at his courage.
The cabman said that he could not imagine what had become of him, for he had seen him get in with his own eyes.
Watson has not heard the opening part but also because the peculiar nature of the story makes me anxious to have every possible detail from your lips.
"This may interest you, Lestrade," he remarked, holding it out.
Making our way among the trees, we reached the lawn, crossed it, and were about to enter through the window when out from a clump of laurel bushes there darted what seemed to be a hideous and distorted child, who threw itself upon the grass with writhing limbs and then ran swiftly across the lawn into the darkness.
But it is very essential to me that the money should be paid at once.' "'I should be happy to advance it without further parley from my own private purse,' said I, 'were it not that the strain would be rather more than it could bear.
"It was pitch dark inside the house, and the colonel fumbled about looking for matches and muttering under his breath.
Now, if you are well up in your London, you will know that the office of the company is in Fresno Street, which branches out of Upper Swandam Lane, where you found me to-night.
Then I went into the back yard and smoked a pipe and wondered what it would be best to do.
When I passed outside, however, and pressed down the levers which controlled it, I knew at once by the whishing sound that there was a slight leakage, which allowed a regurgitation of water through one of the side cylinders.
Roylott's cigar.
"I have been too busy to think of food, and I am likely to be busier still this evening.
"Better close the front door," cried Holmes, and we all rushed down the stairs together.
"The man married a woman very much older than himself for her money," said he, "and he enjoyed the use of the money of the daughter as long as she lived with them.
"Get out!" said he.
"I thought I'd bring him round myself; then he couldn't slip away.
I might at any moment be seized and searched, and there would be the stone in my waistcoat pocket.
I shall call at half-past ten to-morrow if I do not inconvenience you.
From comparing notes afterwards it was but an hour and a quarter, yet it appeared to me that the night must have almost gone and the dawn be breaking above us.
"And Mademoiselle's address?" he asked.
It is a pity, because in other respects you would really have done very nicely.
"How do you know that?" She smiled, but there was no answering smile in Holmes' thin, eager face.
Simon is a myth.
It must be those wretched gipsies in the plantation.' "'Very likely.
It was damp, marshy ground, as is all that district, and there were marks of many feet, both upon the path and amid the short grass which bounded it on either side.
"How could they have decoyed him down there?
"It was from the reigning family of Holland, though the matter in which I served them was of such delicacy that I cannot confide it even to you, who have been good enough to chronicle one or two of my little problems." "And have you any on hand just now?" I asked with interest.
All he wants is an old dog to help him to do the running down." "I hope a wild goose may not prove to be the end of our chase," observed Mr.
I think that I will go in and have a word with Moran, and perhaps write a little note.
You won't shake hands before I go?" "Oh, certainly, if it would give you any pleasure." He put out his hand and coldly grasped that which she extended to him.
You surprise me." "Who ever heard of such a mixed affair?
I think that that bit of news has consoled young McCarthy for all that he has suffered." "But if he is innocent, who has done it?" "Ah!
But our doubts will very soon be solved, for here, unless I am much mistaken, is the person in question." As he spoke the door opened and a young lady entered the room.
Come in!" The man who entered was a sturdy, middle-sized fellow, some thirty years of age, clean-shaven, and sallow-skinned, with a bland, insinuating manner, and a pair of wonderfully sharp and penetrating grey eyes.
And yet you have seen.
"Both you and the coroner have been at some pains," said he, "to single out the very strongest points in the young man's favour.
Since you ask me, however, I may say that it has occurred to me as possible that the excitement of this affair, the consciousness that she had made so immense a social stride, had the effect of causing some little nervous disturbance in my wife." "In short, that she had become suddenly deranged?" "Well, really, when I consider that she has turned her back--I will not say upon me, but upon so much that many have aspired to without success--I can hardly explain it in any other fashion." "Well, certainly that is also a conceivable hypothesis," said Holmes, smiling.
I shall have to tell my tale to the police; but, between ourselves, if it were not for the convincing evidence of this wound of mine, I should be surprised if they believed my statement, for it is a very extraordinary one, and I have not much in the way of proof with which to back it up; and, even if they believe me, the clues which I can give them are so vague that it is a question whether justice will be done." "Ha!" cried I, "if it is anything in the nature of a problem which you desire to see solved, I should strongly recommend you to come to my friend, Mr.
"For God's sake, have mercy!" he shrieked.
I had no idea.
"It is very essential, Miss Stoner," said he, "that you should absolutely follow my advice in every respect." "I shall most certainly do so." "The matter is too serious for any hesitation.
I beg that you will look upon it not as a battered billycock but as an intellectual problem.
I cannot, with this thought in my mind, ever again be happy under your roof, and I feel that I must leave you forever.
Why should she hand it over to anyone else?
Victor Hatherley, hydraulic engineer, 16A, Victoria Street (3rd floor)." That was the name, style, and abode of my morning visitor.
"Think of my father!
"It appeared in all the papers about a year ago.
Holmes walked over to his desk, took out a little triangular piece of gold with three gems in it, and threw it down upon the table.
"I was recalled to myself by a frantic plucking at my wrist, and I found myself lying upon the stone floor of a narrow corridor, while a woman bent over me and tugged at me with her left hand, while she held a candle in her right.
If she had, it must be someone from America because she had spent so short a time in this country that she could hardly have allowed anyone to acquire so deep an influence over her that the mere sight of him would induce her to change her plans so completely.
"Well," said our engineer ruefully as we took our seats to return once more to London, "it has been a pretty business for me!
Evidence of a previous conviction for robbery having been given against the prisoner, the magistrate refused to deal summarily with the offence, but referred it to the Assizes.
He would put it through this ventilator at the hour that he thought best, with the certainty that it would crawl down the rope and land on the bed.
"This is my friend, Dr.
"I think, Miss Hunter, that we had better go in without you.
You were chosen, doubtless, as resembling her in height, figure, and the colour of your hair.
And here is the very note." He slapped it down upon the table in front of him.
Moulton, you would like my friend and me to leave the room while you explain this matter?" "If I may give an opinion," remarked the strange gentleman, "we've had just a little too much secrecy over this business already.
Holmes.
"Here he is," said he, sitting down and flattening it out upon his knee.
"Be it so," said he.
"You are not very vulnerable from above," Holmes remarked as he held up the lantern and gazed about him.
There it is, where the lady is walking." "And the lady, I fancy, is Miss Stoner," observed Holmes, shading his eyes.
"There you are," said he.
Besides, what use was my hair to me?
"It is no wonder that it did not wake you.
what an observant young lady we have come upon.
He had a garden and two or three fields round his house, and there he would take his exercise, though very often for weeks on end he would never leave his room.
Merryweather, we must put the screen over that dark lantern." "And sit in the dark?" "I am afraid so.
That is as much as I have been able to gather about the families.
I should not stay here.
He ran round, like a dog who is picking up a scent, and then turned upon my companion.
Both could be saved if I could but silence that foul tongue.
"This is where we shall find them." "But the twelve-mile drive?" gasped Hatherley.
Even my dread of losing a client could not restrain me from showing my impatience.
"If his motives were innocent, why does he not explain them?" "It is our task to find that out," replied Holmes; "so now, if you please, Mr.
I was ascertaining whether the cellar stretched out in front or behind.
The streets will be crowded, so I trust that you may be in safety.
K.
His form had filled out, his wrinkles were gone, the dull eyes had regained their fire, and there, sitting by the fire and grinning at my surprise, was none other than Sherlock Holmes.
"And, indeed, I could not wonder that such a man as Sir George Burnwell should gain an influence over him, for he has frequently brought him to my house, and I have found myself that I could hardly resist the fascination of his manner.
At the farther end was a small brazier of burning charcoal, beside which on a three-legged wooden stool there sat a tall, thin old man, with his jaw resting upon his two fists, and his elbows upon his knees, staring into the fire.
McCarthy was the only man alive who had known dad in the old days in Victoria." "Ha!
There is a fierce eddy between the wharf and the house.
Holmes, and the little things that he would think of." "It was most suggestive," said Holmes.
They laid me on a couch, I motioned for air, they were compelled to open the window, and you had your chance." "How did that help you?" "It was all-important.
Toller knows more about this matter than anyone else." "Yes, sir, I do, and I am ready enough to tell what I know." "Then, pray, sit down, and let us hear it for there are several points on which I must confess that I am still in the dark." "I will soon make it clear to you," said she; "and I'd have done so before now if I could ha' got out from the cellar.
Holmes," he said.
Did he make no attempt to see you?" "Well, father was going off to France again in a week, and Hosmer wrote and said that it would be safer and better not to see each other until he had gone.
I have made a small study of tattoo marks and have even contributed to the literature of the subject.
A., there is now another vacancy open which entitles a member of the League to a salary of £4 a week for purely nominal services.
For my part, I should like all Europe and America to hear the rights of it." He was a small, wiry, sunburnt man, clean-shaven, with a sharp face and alert manner.
"Oh, my God!
"is it not obvious to you now that this matter really strikes very much deeper than either you or the police were at first inclined to think?
"All is lost." "We shall see." He pushed past the servant and rushed into the drawing-room, followed by the King and myself.
"My eye caught the name of Openshaw, and the heading 'Tragedy Near Waterloo Bridge.' Here is the account: "Between nine and ten last night Police-Constable Cook, of the H Division, on duty near Waterloo Bridge, heard a cry for help and a splash in the water.
McCarthy kept two servants--a man and a girl.
"Well," he said, "I say now, as I said then, that a man should keep his little brain-attic stocked with all the furniture that he is likely to use, and the rest he can put away in the lumber-room of his library, where he can get it if he wants it.
"'That would suit me very well,' said I.
I sprang from my bed, wrapped a shawl round me, and rushed into the corridor.
"'Where have you put it?' asked Arthur.
Well, I have no doubt that this small matter will fall into the same innocent category.
It's not been fed for two days.
The streaming umbrella which he held in his hand, and his long shining waterproof told of the fierce weather through which he had come.
Did she know where her husband was?
There the matter stands at present, and the questions which have to be solved--what Neville St.
The road is an important highway, and there are usually people there.
Julia went there at Christmas two years ago, and met there a half-pay major of marines, to whom she became engaged.
'It is a little fancy of my wife's, and ladies' fancies, you know, madam, ladies' fancies must be consulted.
In the card-case is a note.
"This fellow Merryweather is a bank director, and personally interested in the matter.
In only one matter has she ever gone against my wishes.
If you will wait outside, I shall be with you in five minutes." It was difficult to refuse any of Sherlock Holmes' requests, for they were always so exceedingly definite, and put forward with such a quiet air of mastery.
This is very interesting.
"Well then," said he, "my real name is James Ryder." "Precisely so.
Having no mother, she had no one to advise her at such a crisis." "It was a slight, sir, a public slight," said Lord St.
"He's gone for the dog!" cried Miss Hunter.
"Oh, Mr.
I slipped in in safety and lay awake half the night in my joy at the thought of seeing you.
He beckoned to me and then began walking into the Park.
If you would have the great kindness to get rid of that sottish friend of yours I should be exceedingly glad to have a little talk with you." "I have a cab outside." "Then pray send him home in it.
Why, Watson, let us put their own devilish trade-mark upon them.
You may set your mind at rest about that.
James and I have always loved each other as brother and sister; but of course he is young and has seen very little of life yet, and--and--well, he naturally did not wish to do anything like that yet.
Suddenly a door opened at the other end of the passage, and a long, golden bar of light shot out in our direction.
It was twenty-five minutes past four.
We live very quietly, sir, the three of us; and we keep a roof over our heads and pay our debts, if we do nothing more.
It read in this fashion: The Red-headed League is Dissolved October 9, 1890.
Hardy, the foreman; but when Mr.
It was not that he felt any emotion akin to love for Irene Adler.
Sherlock Holmes was pacing up and down the platform, his tall, gaunt figure made even gaunter and taller by his long grey travelling-cloak and close-fitting cloth cap.
Rucastle, so I think, Watson, that we had best escort Miss Hunter back to Winchester, as it seems to me that our locus standi now is rather a questionable one." And thus was solved the mystery of the sinister house with the copper beeches in front of the door.
We waited, all curiosity, until with another effort he braced himself to tell his story.
The prisoner lay with his face towards us, in a very deep sleep, breathing slowly and heavily.
Baker?" "Yes, sir, that is undoubtedly my hat." He was a large man with rounded shoulders, a massive head, and a broad, intelligent face, sloping down to a pointed beard of grizzled brown.
The goose, sir!" he gasped.
Windibank draws my interest every quarter and pays it over to mother, and I find that I can do pretty well with what I earn at typewriting.
That sounded ominous.
We rattled through an endless labyrinth of gas-lit streets until we emerged into Farrington Street.
And your address?" "No.
The ceremony, as shortly announced in the papers of yesterday, occurred on the previous morning; but it is only now that it has been possible to confirm the strange rumours which have been so persistently floating about.
How you startled me, Kate!
I know that James didn't do it.
It must be in her own house." "But it has twice been burgled." "Pshaw!
An Eley's No.
"Your Majesty has something which I should value even more highly," said Holmes.
The photograph is now as safe as if it were in the fire." "I am glad to hear your Majesty say so." "I am immensely indebted to you.
I promise you that I shall not use it unless it is absolutely needed." "It's as well," said the old man; "it's a question whether I shall live to the Assizes, so it matters little to me, but I should wish to spare Alice the shock.
Holmes pushed open the door of the private bar and ordered two glasses of beer from the ruddy-faced, white-aproned landlord.
We have in our police reports realism pushed to its extreme limits, and yet the result is, it must be confessed, neither fascinating nor artistic." "A certain selection and discretion must be used in producing a realistic effect," remarked Holmes.
He had made a very considerable fortune in the States, and his reason for leaving them was his aversion to the negroes, and his dislike of the Republican policy in extending the franchise to them.
La Scala, hum!
Ryder.
He laughed until he choked, and we got a knife and opened the goose.
"'Oct.
I understand that it was your daughter who required my presence here, and I am acting in her interests.
"You will remember that I remarked the other day, just before we went into the very simple problem presented by Miss Mary Sutherland, that for strange effects and extraordinary combinations we must go to life itself, which is always far more daring than any effort of the imagination." "A proposition which I took the liberty of doubting." "You did, Doctor, but none the less you must come round to my view, for otherwise I shall keep on piling fact upon fact on you until your reason breaks down under them and acknowledges me to be right.
"I was afraid that you were engaged." "So I am.
"You see it?" But I saw nothing.
On the table stood a dark-lantern with the shutter half open, throwing a brilliant beam of light upon the iron safe, the door of which was ajar.
Still, it is clear that she is not personally threatened." "No.
I never went wrong before!
It is terror." She raised her veil as she spoke, and we could see that she was indeed in a pitiable state of agitation, her face all drawn and grey, with restless frightened eyes, like those of some hunted animal.
So perfect was the organisation of the society, and so systematic its methods, that there is hardly a case upon record where any man succeeded in braving it with impunity, or in which any of its outrages were traced home to the perpetrators.
In my position you can readily understand that it is unwise to place one's self under obligations.' "'For how long, may I ask, do you want this sum?' I asked.
That carries us right on to the other block.
The other dived down the hole, and I heard the sound of rending cloth as Jones clutched at his skirts.
Among my headings under this one twelve months I find an account of the adventure of the Paradol Chamber, of the Amateur Mendicant Society, who held a luxurious club in the lower vault of a furniture warehouse, of the facts connected with the loss of the British barque "Sophy Anderson", of the singular adventures of the Grice Patersons in the island of Uffa, and finally of the Camberwell poisoning case.
'A little French, a little German, music, and drawing--' "'Tut, tut!' he cried.
Lady St.
Hudson has had the good sense to light the fire.
They have been identified as her clothes, and it seemed to me that if the clothes were there the body would not be far off." "By the same brilliant reasoning, every man's body is to be found in the neighbourhood of his wardrobe.
The wind was howling outside, and the rain was beating and splashing against the windows.
The rest is of the greyish colour, which shows that blotting-paper has been used.
7th.
The very first key fitted to perfection, and I drew the drawer open.
Again I changed my dress, again I sat in the window, and again I laughed very heartily at the funny stories of which my employer had an immense répertoire, and which he told inimitably.
"Have you managed it?" asked Holmes.
I could even tell that they had been disturbed, for the woman had run back swiftly to the door, as was shown by the deep toe and light heel marks, while Wooden-leg had waited a little, and then had gone away.
A little over-precipitance may ruin all." "And now?" I asked.
Retired from operatic stage--ha!
"What?" "I am no official agent.
He overdid it.
"How long I remained unconscious I cannot tell.
Holmes," said Mr.
"By Jove, Peterson!" said he, "this is treasure trove indeed.
If not, it shall never be seen by mortal eye; and your secret, whether you be alive or dead, shall be safe with us." "Farewell, then," said the old man solemnly.
I cannot recall when I have seen anything so fine.' He took a step backward, cocked his head on one side, and gazed at my hair until I felt quite bashful.
Does that suggest anything?" "A greater distance to travel." "But the letter had also a greater distance to come." "Then I do not see the point." "There is at least a presumption that the vessel in which the man or men are is a sailing-ship.
"But if I am to go, I must pack at once, for I have only half an hour." My experience of camp life in Afghanistan had at least had the effect of making me a prompt and ready traveller.
No sound came from within, and at the silence Holmes' face clouded over.
And yet I believe that my eyes are as good as yours." "Quite so," he answered, lighting a cigarette, and throwing himself down into an armchair.
No reference to the matter at all, either in word or writing?' "'I have already given you my word.' "'Very good.' He suddenly sprang up, and darting like lightning across the room he flung open the door.
"And I." "You will excuse this mask," continued our strange visitor.
It was a singular sight which met our eyes.
Holmes," said he, "but if you are so very sharp you ought to be sharp enough to know that it is you who are breaking the law now, and not me.
"Come in!" said he.
Now he looks a little more human.
S.
Left his lodgings at ten o'clock at night, and has not been heard of since.
"There is no possible getting out of it, Mr.
I could tell you tales of cobbler's wax which would disgust you with human nature.' He stepped over to the window and shouted through it at the top of his voice that the vacancy was filled.
Do you tell me that all this happened within a few yards of your bed and that you heard nothing of it?" "I do not know what to think.
"I do not know that there is anything else for me to explain.
In that way I didn't know much of what was going on outside, and I was always glad of a bit of news.
He tried more than once to break away from the dangerous company which he was keeping, but each time the influence of his friend, Sir George Burnwell, was enough to draw him back again.
And, first, as to how it came here.
He had no friends at all save the wandering gypsies, and he would give these vagabonds leave to encamp upon the few acres of bramble-covered land which represent the family estate, and would accept in return the hospitality of their tents, wandering away with them sometimes for weeks on end.
Sherlock Holmes!" she cried, glancing from one to the other of us, and finally, with a woman's quick intuition, fastening upon my companion, "I am so glad that you have come.
He had always laughed at what he called my cock-and-bull story about the colonel, but he looked very scared and puzzled now that the same thing had come upon himself.
All day a stream of pennies, varied by silver, poured in upon me, and it was a very bad day in which I failed to take £2.
Oh, do not waste the so-precious time, but come!' "This time, at least, I did not scorn her advice.
Peterson had rushed forward to protect the stranger from his assailants; but the man, shocked at having broken the window, and seeing an official-looking person in uniform rushing towards him, dropped his goose, took to his heels, and vanished amid the labyrinth of small streets which lie at the back of Tottenham Court Road.
A chair had been placed close to the central window, with its back turned towards it.
I passed along the tradesmen's path, but found it all trampled down and indistinguishable.
Duncan Ross." "And what did you do then?" asked Holmes.
These are daring men, and though we shall take them at a disadvantage, they may do us some harm unless we are careful.
I think that the change would do you good, and you are always so interested in Mr.
Any injury to it would be almost as serious as its complete loss, for there are no beryls in the world to match these, and it would be impossible to replace them.
The boy had some slight difficulty in undoing the heavy iron gates, and we heard the hoarse roar of the doctor's voice and saw the fury with which he shook his clinched fists at him.
It is equally certain, too, that whatever her sins are, they will soon receive a more than sufficient punishment." THE ADVENTURE OF THE COPPER BEECHES "To the man who loves art for its own sake," remarked Sherlock Holmes, tossing aside the advertisement sheet of the Daily Telegraph, "it is frequently in its least important and lowliest manifestations that the keenest pleasure is to be derived.
"I was still balancing the matter in my mind when a hansom cab drove up to Briony Lodge, and a gentleman sprang out.
"It is quite a three pipe problem, and I beg that you won't speak to me for fifty minutes." He curled himself up in his chair, with his thin knees drawn up to his hawk-like nose, and there he sat with his eyes closed and his black clay pipe thrusting out like the bill of some strange bird.
Merryweather, the stake will be some £30,000; and for you, Jones, it will be the man upon whom you wish to lay your hands." "John Clay, the murderer, thief, smasher, and forger.
The lowest estimate would put the worth of the coronet at double the sum which I have asked.
"Bring me the books, Bill," said he.
"Starving.
Simon has not already arrived.
and Mrs.
You know me too well to think that I am boasting when I say that I shall either confirm or destroy his theory by means which he is quite incapable of employing, or even of understanding.
"You will excuse me," said Holmes blandly, "but I could not help overhearing the questions which you put to the salesman just now.
THE RED-HEADED LEAGUE I had called upon my friend, Mr.
His tangled beard, grizzled hair, and outstanding, drooping eyebrows combined to give an air of dignity and power to his appearance, but his face was of an ashen white, while his lips and the corners of his nostrils were tinged with a shade of blue.
We compress the earth into bricks, so as to remove them without revealing what they are.
"You see, Mr.
Then he handed me a yellow-backed novel, and moving my chair a little sideways, that my own shadow might not fall upon the page, he begged me to read aloud to him.
What can you gather yourself as to the individuality of the man who has worn this article?" I took the tattered object in my hands and turned it over rather ruefully.
Next day I was inclined to think that I had made a mistake, and by the day after I was sure of it.
Might I ask you a question or two?" "Pray do, sir, if it may help to clear this horrible affair up." "You heard nothing yourself last night?" "Nothing, until my uncle here began to speak loudly.
His boots, his socks, his hat, and his watch--all were there.
He has seen too much.
I could not hear a sound, not even the drawing of a breath, and yet I knew that my companion sat open-eyed, within a few feet of me, in the same state of nervous tension in which I was myself.
Be in your chamber then at that hour, and do not take it amiss if your visitor wear a mask." "This is indeed a mystery," I remarked.
I cannot possibly leave until I have seen the machine.' "'It is not worth your while to wait,' she went on.
It is the more strange, since we know that Turner himself was averse to the idea.
Oakshott, 117, Brixton Road--249," read Holmes.
You must assert that in such words as will carry conviction with them.
"There are a thousand details which I should desire to know before I decide upon our course of action.
"But a very serious one to me," returned the King reproachfully.
I put on my hat and cloak, went down to the office, which is about half a mile from the house, and then returned, feeling very much easier.
Fleet Street was choked with red-headed folk, and Pope's Court looked like a coster's orange barrow.
The question now was, who was the man and who was it brought him the coronet?
I keep it only to safeguard myself, and to preserve a weapon which will always secure me from any steps which he might take in the future.
Every shade of colour they were--straw, lemon, orange, brick, Irish-setter, liver, clay; but, as Spaulding said, there were not many who had the real vivid flame-coloured tint.
Posted to-day in Gravesend by a man with a dirty thumb.
The more featureless and commonplace a crime is, the more difficult it is to bring it home.
He does not say so, but I can read it from his soothing answers and averted eyes.
Pray wait until you have recovered yourself, and then I shall be most happy to look into any little problem which you may submit to me." The man sat for a minute or more with a heaving chest, fighting against his emotion.
Good-day, Mr.
The night, however, was extremely dark and stormy, so that, in spite of the help of several passers-by, it was quite impossible to effect a rescue.
Besides, I knew that my assistant was a good man, and that he would see to anything that turned up.
It was the most preposterous position in which I ever found myself in my life, and it was the thought of it that started me laughing just now.
It is possible that our inquiry may but confirm his guilt; but, in any case, we have a line of investigation which has been missed by the police, and which a singular chance has placed in our hands.
Colonel Lysander Stark sprang out, and, as I followed after him, pulled me swiftly into a porch which gaped in front of us.
We will talk about that.
If I remember rightly, you on one occasion, in the early days of our friendship, defined my limits in a very precise fashion." "Yes," I answered, laughing.
"I should wish to." "Just look it up, then." "There is a train at half-past nine," said I, glancing over my Bradshaw.
How shall I ever forget that dreadful vigil?
She told him of the coronet.
Now, you must have some wine and water, and sit here comfortably and tell us all about it.
You must be weary, for you have had a long day." "This is my friend, Dr.
I answered that it had ceased to be a private matter, but had become a public one, since the ruined coronet was national property.
But the deception could not be kept up forever.
Upon the second day of his absence I received a telegram from the major, imploring me to come at once.
I have not come to stay," said I.
"Thank you," said Holmes, "I only wished to ask you how you would go from here to the Strand." "Third right, fourth left," answered the assistant promptly, closing the door.
There was the case, and of course there was but one way out of it.
The double line a little above the wrist, where the typewritist presses against the table, was beautifully defined.
On the issue of this question depended whether I should continue my work at Briony Lodge, or turn my attention to the gentleman's chambers in the Temple.
"I think, Watson, that you are now standing in the presence of one of the most absolute fools in Europe.
He made a slight motion to me to approach him, and instantly, as he turned his face half round to the company once more, subsided into a doddering, loose-lipped senility.
Holmes." "Unless this is a clever forgery to put us on the wrong scent.
This text comes from the collection's version 3.1.
"'My dear young lady!
When my dear wife died I felt that he was all I had to love.
Then the charge against him will break down." "Hum!
And now, Doctor, we can do nothing until the answers to those letters come, so we may put our little problem upon the shelf for the interim." I had had so many reasons to believe in my friend's subtle powers of reasoning and extraordinary energy in action that I felt that he must have some solid grounds for the assured and easy demeanour with which he treated the singular mystery which he had been called upon to fathom.
I ask you now, is such a theory tenable?" "But what other is there?" cried the banker with a gesture of despair.
"That is very fortunate, as I have one or two matters of importance to look into just at present.
Pray proceed with your statement." "I could not sleep that night.
I have done nothing actionable from the first, but as long as you keep that door locked you lay yourself open to an action for assault and illegal constraint." "The law cannot, as you say, touch you," said Holmes, unlocking and throwing open the door, "yet there never was a man who deserved punishment more.
"I owe you an apology," he said, raising his golden pince-nez to his eyes.
Well, the temptation of sudden wealth so easily acquired was too much for you, as it has been for better men before you; but you were not very scrupulous in the means you used.
"I am sorry to knock you up so early, Doctor," said he, "but I have had a very serious accident during the night.
The presence of the gipsies, and the use of the word 'band,' which was used by the poor girl, no doubt, to explain the appearance which she had caught a hurried glimpse of by the light of her match, were sufficient to put me upon an entirely wrong scent.
"Mrs.
Windibank--that is, my father--took it all.
It is a hereditary matter; so in order to give you an idea of the facts, I must go back to the commencement of the affair.
"Yes, sir!" said the station-master.
Far away we could hear the deep tones of the parish clock, which boomed out every quarter of an hour.
Nothing was left save a few acres of ground, and the two-hundred-year-old house, which is itself crushed under a heavy mortgage.
"You must not fear," said he soothingly, bending forward and patting her forearm.
I had no difficulty in getting leave to come into Winchester this morning, but I must be back before three o'clock, for Mr.
Let us now see the letter.
Oh, if you do, Mr.
The firemen had been much perturbed at the strange arrangements which they had found within, and still more so by discovering a newly severed human thumb upon a window-sill of the second floor.
I think that I have touched bottom at last, however.
I already regretted having ever consented to take charge of it.
Very likely I have.
There is only one point on which I must insist.
As a rule, when I have heard some slight indication of the course of events, I am able to guide myself by the thousands of other similar cases which occur to my memory.
I do not mean that any beggar in the streets of London could earn £700 a year--which is less than my average takings--but I had exceptional advantages in my power of making up, and also in a facility of repartee, which improved by practice and made me quite a recognised character in the City.
This is the man whom we now learn to have been the lodger at the opium den, and to have been the last man to see the gentleman of whom we are in quest." "But a cripple!" said I.
It was one bird, I imagine in which you were interested--white, with a black bar across the tail." Ryder quivered with emotion.
Holder, I shall now continue my investigations outside." He went alone, at his own request, for he explained that any unnecessary footmarks might make his task more difficult.
Is the security sufficient?' "'Ample.' "'You understand, Mr.
We had hardly reached the hall when we heard the baying of a hound, and then a scream of agony, with a horrible worrying sound which it was dreadful to listen to.
"One day a gold convoy came down from Ballarat to Melbourne, and we lay in wait for it and attacked it.
Drink this." I dashed some brandy into the water, and the colour began to come back to his bloodless cheeks.
Simon had by no means relaxed his rigid attitude, but had listened with a frowning brow and a compressed lip to this long narrative.
If the lady loves her husband, she does not love your Majesty.
"It may give him a sleepless night.
Having done this, you must at once put the box out upon the sundial, as directed.
He was quietly dressed in a suit of heather tweed with a soft cloth cap which he had laid down upon my books.
There it is in a nutshell.
I have already arranged what is to occur.
You see how quickly the deed followed the sign when it came from Dundee.
Whom have I the honour to address?" "You may address me as the Count Von Kramm, a Bohemian nobleman.
And yet you cannot guard yourself too closely." "I am armed." "That is well.
Rucastle told me in private that the reason why she had left them was that she had an unreasoning aversion to her stepmother.
where?" shouted Mr.
"'Then, good-bye, Mr.
Clair had fainted at the sight of the blood upon the window, and she was escorted home in a cab by the police, as her presence could be of no help to them in their investigations.
On the other hand, he had no means of supporting himself, and his father, who was by all accounts a very hard man, would have thrown him over utterly had he known the truth.
"Yes.
I can make neither head nor tail of the business." "Really!
I shall write to Mr.
But I would rather not talk about the creature, Mr.
Hosmer Angel?
They have now fled together." "My Mary?
"How is that?" I asked when I had finished.
The cab and the landau with their steaming horses were in front of the door when I arrived.
"'Look in here!' said Mr.
I can do nothing for myself." I walked down the narrow passage between the double row of sleepers, holding my breath to keep out the vile, stupefying fumes of the drug, and looking about for the manager.
He was such a comfortable-looking man that it was quite a pleasure to look at him.
I went about, however, with a heart which was full of forebodings.
A camp-bed, a small wooden shelf full of books, mostly of a technical character, an armchair beside the bed, a plain wooden chair against the wall, a round table, and a large iron safe were the principal things which met the eye.
Rucastle were both downstairs, and the child was with them, so that I had an admirable opportunity.
What did she do on re-entering her father's house?" "I saw her in conversation with her maid." "And who is her maid?" "Alice is her name.
She held up one shaking finger to warn me to be silent, and she shot a few whispered words of broken English at me, her eyes glancing back, like those of a frightened horse, into the gloom behind her.
His face was bent downward, his shoulders bowed, his lips compressed, and the veins stood out like whipcord in his long, sinewy neck.
We guard our secret very jealously, however, and if it once became known that we had hydraulic engineers coming to our little house, it would soon rouse inquiry, and then, if the facts came out, it would be good-bye to any chance of getting these fields and carrying out our plans.
"Well, I have drawn my circle, and I only wish I knew at what point upon it the folk that we are in search of are to be found." "I think I could lay my finger on it," said Holmes quietly.
He hastened upstairs, and a few minutes later I heard the slam of the hall door, which told me that he was off once more upon his congenial hunt.
'You can pass through the door; no one hinders.' And then, seeing that I smiled and shook my head, she suddenly threw aside her constraint and made a step forward, with her hands wrung together.
"Do you know, Watson," said he, "that it is one of the curses of a mind with a turn like mine that I must look at everything with reference to my own special subject.
"What do you make of that, Watson?" "It's a common enough lash.
She had hardly listened to his instructions when she saw you coming downstairs, on which she closed the window rapidly and told you about one of the servants' escapade with her wooden-legged lover, which was all perfectly true.
6d.'" "Quite so.
'Hullo!' I yelled.
"Hold up, man, or you'll be into the fire!
"You have really got it!" he cried, grasping Sherlock Holmes by either shoulder and looking eagerly into his face.
"'I wish you, John,' said my uncle, 'to witness my will.
And yet I need not tell you that my mind was far from at ease, and that I was well-nigh certain that some foul plot had been woven round him.
You're mad!
Sherlock Holmes," said the lady as we entered a well-lit dining-room, upon the table of which a cold supper had been laid out, "I should very much like to ask you one or two plain questions, to which I beg that you will give a plain answer." "Certainly, madam." "Do not trouble about my feelings.
"'That's all right,' said he, coming back.
Simon's narrative.
I believe that a single lady can get on very nicely upon an income of about £60." "I could do with much less than that, Mr.
"The left arm of your jacket is spattered with mud in no less than seven places.
By the way, Doctor, I shall want your co-operation." "I shall be delighted." "You don't mind breaking the law?" "Not in the least." "Nor running a chance of arrest?" "Not in a good cause." "Oh, the cause is excellent!" "Then I am your man." "I was sure that I might rely on you." "But what is it you wish?" "When Mrs.
Might I beg that you would have the goodness to sit down upon one of those boxes, and not to interfere?" The solemn Mr.
In another instant he stood at the side of the hole and was hauling after him a companion, lithe and small like himself, with a pale face and a shock of very red hair.
And now let us talk about George Meredith, if you please, and we shall leave all minor matters until to-morrow." There was no rain, as Holmes had foretold, and the morning broke bright and cloudless.
There was one singular exception, however, for he had a single room, a lumber-room up among the attics, which was invariably locked, and which he would never permit either me or anyone else to enter.
Toller lets him loose every night, and God help the trespasser whom he lays his fangs upon.
Holmes, and my mind is made up that I will accept it.
I know that he is right.
My sister and I, you will recollect, were twins, and you know how subtle are the links which bind two souls which are so closely allied.
St.
The Lascar was known to be a man of the vilest antecedents, but as, by Mrs.
I think that I recognise the symptoms.
When I came down, Mr.
It was Neville St.
And the flap has been gummed, if I am not very much in error, by a person who had been chewing tobacco.
It may be some time before I get back.
He was not a popular man, being somewhat cold and forbidding in his manners, but he had, as far as I know, no active enemies.
"If you leave it to a court of law to clear the matter up," said he, "of course you can hardly avoid publicity.
"Certainly, if you wish it." "I thank your Majesty.
I am prepared to leave it with you as my security.' "I took the precious case into my hands and looked in some perplexity from it to my illustrious client.
The stage lost a fine actor, even as science lost an acute reasoner, when he became a specialist in crime.
He'll crack a crib in Scotland one week, and be raising money to build an orphanage in Cornwall the next.
By its light I saw that the black ceiling was coming down upon me, slowly, jerkily, but, as none knew better than myself, with a force which must within a minute grind me to a shapeless pulp.
It is one of these cases--but, hullo, here is Lestrade!
He had trained it, probably by the use of the milk which we saw, to return to him when summoned.
There was an old chest of drawers in the room, the two upper ones empty and open, the lower one locked.
He was pacing the room swiftly, eagerly, with his head sunk upon his chest and his hands clasped behind him.
"It's all clear," he whispered.
Simon.
We are at present, Doctor--as no doubt you have divined--in the cellar of the City branch of one of the principal London banks.
We were all assembled round him when the door opened, and a tall, gaunt woman entered the room.
We should be rich men if we had £1000 for every poor devil who has been done to death in that den.
"If your Majesty would condescend to state your case," he remarked, "I should be better able to advise you." The man sprang from his chair and paced up and down the room in uncontrollable agitation.
Who is this K.
Holmes traced his way to the farther side of this and lay down once more upon his face with a little cry of satisfaction.
I sprang up and lit the lamp, but nothing was to be seen in the room.
"But he is right.
Simon, who has shown himself for over twenty years proof against the little god's arrows, has now definitely announced his approaching marriage with Miss Hatty Doran, the fascinating daughter of a California millionaire.
From north, south, east, and west every man who had a shade of red in his hair had tramped into the city to answer the advertisement.
Then when you hear him retire for the night, you must open the shutters of your window, undo the hasp, put your lamp there as a signal to us, and then withdraw quietly with everything which you are likely to want into the room which you used to occupy.
"There was a paragraph amplifying this in one of the society papers of the same week.
You allude to my attempt to recover the Irene Adler papers, to the singular case of Miss Mary Sutherland, and to the adventure of the man with the twisted lip.
I have it here in my museum." Our visitor staggered to his feet and clutched the mantelpiece with his right hand.
"Yes, I have been dragging the Serpentine." "In heaven's name, what for?" "In search of the body of Lady St.
"Precisely so, on December 22nd, just five days ago.
Holmes, which may have any bearing upon the case, but I beg that you will question me upon any point which I do not make clear." "On the contrary, your statement is singularly lucid." "I come to a part of my story now in which I should wish to be particularly so.
"Your narrative promises to be a most interesting one." "You will find it rather disconnected, I fear, and there may prove to be little relation between the different incidents of which I speak.
"A house on fire?" asked Bradstreet as the train steamed off again on its way.
"'I am afraid that that is quite impossible,' said I.
As if a man bent on felony would slam his door so as to wake a household.
You say that there was a gentleman in the pew.
He held in his hand a sheet of blue paper, scrawled over with notes and figures.
In the surgeon's deposition it was stated that the posterior third of the left parietal bone and the left half of the occipital bone had been shattered by a heavy blow from a blunt weapon.
He was dressed in a sombre yet rich style, in black frock-coat, shining hat, neat brown gaiters, and well-cut pearl-grey trousers.
I have been out to Streatham since I saw you last, but I did not call at the house.
A heavily timbered park stretched up in a gentle slope, thickening into a grove at the highest point.
"The Coroner: I am afraid that I must press it.
I heard a gentle sound of movement, and then all was silent once more, though the smell grew stronger.
"Pray give us the essential facts from the commencement, and I can afterwards question you as to those details which seem to me to be most important." The young man pulled his chair up and pushed his wet feet out towards the blaze.
I was too shaken to go to bed again, however, so I dressed, and as soon as it was daylight I slipped down, got a dog-cart at the Crown Inn, which is opposite, and drove to Leatherhead, from whence I have come on this morning with the one object of seeing you and asking your advice." "You have done wisely," said my friend.
you thief!
Kindly sign the paper where Mr.
Then I do not think that I need to detain you longer.
"'Oh, never mind about that, Mr.
He moved out yesterday.' "'Where could I find him?' "'Oh, at his new offices.
Holmes?
On the contrary, you are, as I understand, richer by some £30, to say nothing of the minute knowledge which you have gained on every subject which comes under the letter A.
Then I called at the offices round, but none of them seemed to know anything about it.
"I wish to have a quiet word with you, Bradstreet." "Certainly, Mr.
A lady dressed in black and heavily veiled, who had been sitting in the window, rose as we entered.
'There are thirty-nine enormous beryls,' said he, 'and the price of the gold chasing is incalculable.
I am all off colour.
This woman might, for all I knew, be a monomaniac.
His frank acceptance of the situation marks him as either an innocent man, or else as a man of considerable self-restraint and firmness.
"It is very well to cringe and crawl now, but you thought little enough of this poor Horner in the dock for a crime of which he knew nothing." "I will fly, Mr.
I have taken you fully into my confidence now, Mr.
Wilson?
"I had an idea that he might, and I took the liberty of bringing the tools with me." He opened the Gladstone bag as he spoke, and took out, to my astonishment, a very large bath-sponge.
James's Hall I felt that an evil time might be coming upon those whom he had set himself to hunt down.
More than once I have surprised her in tears.
He would show me how to turn the stone into money.
Round one of his hands he had a handkerchief wrapped, which was mottled all over with bloodstains.
Then you think that the Serpentine plays no part in the matter?" "I think it very unlikely." "Then perhaps you will kindly explain how it is that we found this in it?" He opened his bag as he spoke, and tumbled onto the floor a wedding-dress of watered silk, a pair of white satin shoes and a bride's wreath and veil, all discoloured and soaked in water.
I shall call with the King to-morrow, and with you, if you care to come with us.
So there were quarrels, and this, I am sure, was one of them." "And your father?" asked Holmes.
Beyond these signs of his activity, however, which I merely shared with all the readers of the daily press, I knew little of my former friend and companion.
He was a singular man, fierce and quick-tempered, very foul-mouthed when he was angry, and of a most retiring disposition.
I am all impatience to be gone." "We must have a cab." "No, my brougham is waiting." "Then that will simplify matters." We descended and started off once more for Briony Lodge.
He conceives an idea more creditable to his head than to his heart.
From my position I could look over the case in the direction of the floor.
She left her room, therefore, and came into mine, where she sat for some time, chatting about her approaching wedding.
Holder and I went into the dining-room and waited by the fire until he should return.
The boards round and the panelling of the walls were of brown, worm-eaten oak, so old and discoloured that it may have dated from the original building of the house.
I tell you, all those birds that went to the Alpha were town bred." "You'll never persuade me to believe that." "Will you bet, then?" "It's merely taking your money, for I know that I am right.
"'L'homme c'est rien--l'oeuvre c'est tout,' as Gustave Flaubert wrote to George Sand." A CASE OF IDENTITY "My dear fellow," said Sherlock Holmes as we sat on either side of the fire in his lodgings at Baker Street, "life is infinitely stranger than anything which the mind of man could invent.
Mr.
"I am a practical man," he said, "and I really cannot undertake to go about the country looking for a left-handed gentleman with a game leg.
"And now a word as to my household, Mr.
Hatherley, and I have shown you how I trust you.' He rose as he spoke.
"It has been a case of considerable interest," he remarked, returning to his natural manner.
There are small lateral columns of water outside which receive the force, and which transmit and multiply it in the manner which is familiar to you.
'It is high, but it may be that you can jump it.' "As she spoke a light sprang into view at the further end of the passage, and I saw the lean figure of Colonel Lysander Stark rushing forward with a lantern in one hand and a weapon like a butcher's cleaver in the other.
"'Gone to the dealer's, Jem.' "'Which dealer's?' "'Breckinridge, of Covent Garden.' "'But was there another with a barred tail?' I asked, 'the same as the one I chose?' "'Yes, Jem; there were two barred-tailed ones, and I could never tell them apart.' "Well, then, of course I saw it all, and I ran off as hard as my feet would carry me to this man Breckinridge; but he had sold the lot at once, and not one word would he tell me as to where they had gone.
I knew that it was my sister's voice.
I have heard of you, Mr.
I'll tell you first how I came to be in his power.
I remember nothing until I found myself lying on my bed trembling all over.
Still, it did not go for very much, for the older man might have turned his back before the blow fell.
Miss Doran, whose graceful figure and striking face attracted much attention at the Westbury House festivities, is an only child, and it is currently reported that her dowry will run to considerably over the six figures, with expectancies for the future.
Holmes slowly reopened his eyes and looked impatiently at his gigantic client.
Rucastle survived, but was always a broken man, kept alive solely through the care of his devoted wife.
"I do not know what I have done to be so severely tried," said he.
I had heard of him before as being a man of evil reputation among women.
It must be confessed, however, that the case looks exceedingly grave against the young man, and it is very possible that he is indeed the culprit.
The lash, however, was curled upon itself and tied so as to make a loop of whipcord.
There were no carpets and no signs of any furniture above the ground floor, while the plaster was peeling off the walls, and the damp was breaking through in green, unhealthy blotches.
It laid an egg after it was dead--the bonniest, brightest little blue egg that ever was seen.
By degrees he made friends in the neighbourhood, and in 1887 he married the daughter of a local brewer, by whom he now has two children.
Windibank did not wish us to go.
This assistant of yours who first called your attention to the advertisement--how long had he been with you?" "About a month then." "How did he come?" "In answer to an advertisement." "Was he the only applicant?" "No, I had a dozen." "Why did you pick him?" "Because he was handy and would come cheap." "At half-wages, in fact." "Yes." "What is he like, this Vincent Spaulding?" "Small, stout-built, very quick in his ways, no hair on his face, though he's not short of thirty.
What did you do, then?
Was it all to go for nothing?
"And now?" He raised his hand.
But among them was Sir George Burnwell.
I was shocked by the change which had come over him, for his face which was naturally of a broad and massive mould, was now pinched and fallen in, while his hair seemed to me at least a shade whiter.
It was only to-day that I spoke to Major Prendergast about my troubles and was advised by him to come to you." "It is really two days since you had the letter.
You said it should not be again.
The injuries were such as might very well have been inflicted by the butt-end of his son's gun, which was found lying on the grass within a few paces of the body.
He locked the door and hurried past me without a word or a look.
Ryder stood glaring with a drawn face, uncertain whether to claim or to disown it.
'You will be the ruin of us.
He thought no more of the matter until he heard in the evening of the tragedy that had occurred.
She had hardly said the words when young Mr.
On the one hand, of course, I was glad, for the fee was at least tenfold what I should have asked had I set a price upon my own services, and it was possible that this order might lead to other ones.
What an exposure!
Well, when once his case has been settled, he will have a regular prison bath; and I think, if you saw him, you would agree with me that he needed it." "I should like to see him very much." "Would you?
'I have made my dark room up there.
"The postmark is London--eastern division.
It was the same next week, and the same the week after.
Pray let me have the details." "I warn you that they are very incomplete." "Perhaps we may make them less so." "Such as they are, they are set forth in a single article of a morning paper of yesterday, which I will read to you.
"Yes, it would be as well." "And I have some business to do which will take some hours.
There was a cheetah, too; perhaps we might find it upon our shoulders at any moment.
When the inspector and a constable entered the house, Arthur, who had stood sullenly with his arms folded, asked me whether it was my intention to charge him with theft.
"He is, in my judgment, the fourth smartest man in London, and for daring I am not sure that he has not a claim to be third.
That's right!
"'Arthur!' I screamed, 'you villain!
It is a little place near the borders of Oxfordshire, and within seven miles of Reading.
It was from Sherlock Holmes and ran in this way: "Have you a couple of days to spare?
"The family was at one time among the richest in England, and the estates extended over the borders into Berkshire in the north, and Hampshire in the west.
"Indirectly it may be of value, you know; you have only to put it into words to gain the reputation of being excellent company for the remainder of your existence." THE ADVENTURE OF THE NOBLE BACHELOR The Lord St.
"Here it is," said he presently: "'Ku Klux Klan.
As we approached it I heard the sharp rattling of a chain, and the sound as of a large animal moving about.
There cannot be any missing,' said he.
When I had cleared it all up I had an interview with him, and finding that he would not tell me the story, I told it to him, on which he had to confess that I was right and to add the very few details which were not yet quite clear to me.
She is what we call in England a tomboy, with a strong nature, wild and free, unfettered by any sort of traditions.
"Besides, we may chance to hit upon some other obvious facts which may have been by no means obvious to Mr.
There is not an instant to be lost.
"Pray take this chair by the fire, Mr.
"Well, to my surprise and delight, everything was as right as possible.
I shall take no notice of such nonsense.' "'I should certainly speak to the police,' I said.
They had driven him home a dozen times from Serpentine-mews, and knew all about him.
It was in the latter days of September, and the equinoctial gales had set in with exceptional violence.
6d., glass sherry, 8d.' I see nothing in that." "Very likely not.
No, he had not.
The centre door was closed, and across the outside of it had been fastened one of the broad bars of an iron bed, padlocked at one end to a ring in the wall, and fastened at the other with stout cord.
If I lay on my face the weight would come upon my spine, and I shuddered to think of that dreadful snap.
Now keep your eyes open in this crowd for your friends of last night, though I very much fear that they are a good hundred miles off by now." And Holmes' fears came to be realised, for from that day to this no word has ever been heard either of the beautiful woman, the sinister German, or the morose Englishman.
How could you know anything of the matter?" "My name is Sherlock Holmes.
This also was opened, and led down a flight of winding stone steps, which terminated at another formidable gate.
He is small for his age, with a head which is quite disproportionately large.
Let me out!' "And then suddenly in the silence I heard a sound which sent my heart into my mouth.
Holmes, for I thought that I was not to have the vacancy after all; but after thinking it over for a few minutes he said that it would be all right.
The head had been beaten in by repeated blows of some heavy and blunt weapon.
Even though he knew that Arthur had discovered him, he might still flatter himself that he was safe, for the lad could not say a word without compromising his own family.
Henry Baker is a member." "Oh, sir, you are the very man whom I have longed to meet," cried the little fellow with outstretched hands and quivering fingers.
Roylott entirely while we resided with him, with a provision that a certain annual sum should be allowed to each of us in the event of our marriage.
"I do not encourage visitors." "A client, then?" "If so, it is a serious case.
Holmes.
His slow, limping step and bowed shoulders gave the appearance of decrepitude, and yet his hard, deep-lined, craggy features, and his enormous limbs showed that he was possessed of unusual strength of body and of character.
Jabez Wilson.
"Irene Adler is married," remarked Holmes.
With my body in one easy-chair and my legs upon another, I had surrounded myself with a cloud of newspapers until at last, saturated with the news of the day, I tossed them all aside and lay listless, watching the huge crest and monogram upon the envelope upon the table and wondering lazily who my friend's noble correspondent could be.
We have certainly been favoured with extraordinary luck during this inquiry, and it will be entirely our own fault if we do not succeed in clearing the matter up.
Same old platform.
It was as well for his resolution, perhaps, for her pleading face was one which it was hard to resist.
"We have been on a friendly footing for some years--I may say on a very friendly footing.
We cannot spare time even to discuss what you have told me.
The Duke, his father, was at one time Secretary for Foreign Affairs.
"'Don't be frightened,' said my employer, laughing at the start which I had given.
It was dated at midnight of the preceding night and ran in this way: "My dear Mr.
"The Coroner: I understand that the cry of 'Cooee' was a common signal between you and your father?
If you find you cannot, take my advice, my boy, and leave it to your deadliest enemy.
"There is a well-known agency for governesses in the West End called Westaway's, and there I used to call about once a week in order to see whether anything had turned up which might suit me.
His death was seven weeks later, upon the night of May 2nd." "Thank you.
"Oscillation upon the pavement always means an affaire de coeur.
Now for the sinister cripple who lives upon the second floor of the opium den, and who was certainly the last human being whose eyes rested upon Neville St.
"No; we don't keep a cat.
There was not a soul there save the two whom I had followed and a surpliced clergyman, who seemed to be expostulating with them.
Clair's coat, and not Neville St.
"It is both, or none," said he.
Baker.
Known to have been employed in an office in Leadenhall Street.
I took advantage now of my attainments.
Oh!
Every good stone is.
The lady had taken a quick step forward and had held out her hand to him, but he still refused to raise his eyes.
I deduced a ventilator." "But what harm can there be in that?" "Well, there is at least a curious coincidence of dates.
She would often be lost in deep thought, with the saddest look upon her face.
Merryweather stopped to light a lantern, and then conducted us down a dark, earth-smelling passage, and so, after opening a third door, into a huge vault or cellar, which was piled all round with crates and massive boxes.
"'Dear Miss Hunter: "'Miss Stoper has very kindly given me your address, and I write from here to ask you whether you have reconsidered your decision.
It must be bought." "She will not sell." "Stolen, then." "Five attempts have been made.
I have no doubt that, in spite of the repairs, you could manage there for one night." "Oh, yes, easily." "The rest you will leave in our hands." "But what will you do?" "We shall spend the night in your room, and we shall investigate the cause of this noise which has disturbed you." "I believe, Mr.
There he was, sitting with a newly opened envelope in one hand and five dried orange pips in the outstretched palm of the other one.
"'Most admirably.' "'I say a night's work, but an hour's would be nearer the mark.
There are several singular points about the case.
"Only one of those whimsical little incidents which will happen when you have four million human beings all jostling each other within the space of a few square miles.
the speckled band!" whispered Holmes.
"I never hope to see such a sight as that again, Mr.
"I am afraid that I am still a sceptic," he said.
For an hour or more he was at work, returning at last with his feet heavy with snow and his features as inscrutable as ever.
And yet--Well!
Sherlock Holmes, "Very truly yours, "Irene Norton, née Adler." "What a woman--oh, what a woman!" cried the King of Bohemia, when we had all three read this epistle.
At the same instant I saw him raise his hand and at the signal I tossed my rocket into the room with a cry of "Fire!" The word was no sooner out of my mouth than the whole crowd of spectators, well dressed and ill--gentlemen, ostlers, and servant-maids--joined in a general shriek of "Fire!" Thick clouds of smoke curled through the room and out at the open window.
"When you see a man with whiskers of that cut and the 'Pink 'un' protruding out of his pocket, you can always draw him by a bet," said he.
"Have you the chisel and the bags?
On the other hand, a man should be at his very best and keenest for such nice work as that, and I did not wish to do it when fagged by a long journey.
Grimesby Roylott which tend to make the matter even more terrible than the truth.
Beyond lay another dull wilderness of bricks and mortar, its silence broken only by the heavy, regular footfall of the policeman, or the songs and shouts of some belated party of revellers.
A lens and a forceps lying upon the seat of the chair suggested that the hat had been suspended in this manner for the purpose of examination.
I left the breakfast-table, and as I ascended the stair I met him coming down with an old rusty key, which must have belonged to the attic, in one hand, and a small brass box, like a cashbox, in the other.
Please be at the Black Swan Hotel at Winchester at midday to-morrow [it said].
But now the spell had been upon him eight-and-forty hours, and he lay there, doubtless among the dregs of the docks, breathing in the poison or sleeping off the effects.
"These are young McCarthy's feet.
All day the wind had screamed and the rain had beaten against the windows, so that even here in the heart of great, hand-made London we were forced to raise our minds for the instant from the routine of life and to recognise the presence of those great elemental forces which shriek at mankind through the bars of his civilisation, like untamed beasts in a cage.
It is to that remark that she refers in this note: "'My dearest Uncle: "'I feel that I have brought trouble upon you, and that if I had acted differently this terrible misfortune might never have occurred.
In spite of the light brown dustcoat and leather-leggings which he wore in deference to his rustic surroundings, I had no difficulty in recognising Lestrade, of Scotland Yard.
It seldom was; but he was glad, I think, to see me.
"Eight weeks passed away like this, and I had written about Abbots and Archery and Armour and Architecture and Attica, and hoped with diligence that I might get on to the B's before very long.
It was quite against my wishes that she came, but she is a very excitable, impulsive girl, as you may have noticed, and she is not easily controlled when she has made up her mind on a point.
Great Scott!
You have him here?" "In the cells." "Is he quiet?" "Oh, he gives no trouble.
This is my intimate friend and associate, Dr.
Round this corner were three doors in a line, the first and third of which were open.
No one could pass these shutters if they were bolted.
I had come to the conclusion that he had dropped asleep, and indeed was nodding myself, when he suddenly sprang out of his chair with the gesture of a man who has made up his mind and put his pipe down upon the mantelpiece.
Charles McCarthy, who was also an ex-Australian.
"And perhaps, after all, it is for the best.
Therefore it is upon the logic rather than upon the crime that you should dwell.
During that time I have lived happily at Horsham, and I had begun to hope that this curse had passed away from the family, and that it had ended with the last generation.
"And now you must on no account lose another instant.
That is why I have made you promise me that you will not tell a human being that you are going to Eyford to-night.
"That is the baboon." I had forgotten the strange pets which the doctor affected.
It had ceased ere I was wide awake, but it had left an impression behind it as though a window had gently closed somewhere.
Simon marriage, and its curious termination, have long ceased to be a subject of interest in those exalted circles in which the unfortunate bridegroom moves.
Mr.
But to-day being Saturday rather complicates matters.
Spaulding, he came down into the office just this day eight weeks, with this very paper in his hand, and he says: "'I wish to the Lord, Mr.
I'm sure I beg pardon.
I read for about ten minutes, beginning in the heart of a chapter, and then suddenly, in the middle of a sentence, he ordered me to cease and to change my dress.
I should not have thought there were so many in the whole country as were brought together by that single advertisement.
He had foresight, but has less now than formerly, pointing to a moral retrogression, which, when taken with the decline of his fortunes, seems to indicate some evil influence, probably drink, at work upon him.
Both these witnesses depose that Mr.
"Here it is.
Augustine.
I see the direction in which all this points.
"Oh, indeed!
At last, however, the bumping of the road was exchanged for the crisp smoothness of a gravel-drive, and the carriage came to a stand.
I have thought sometimes that it was the disposition of her child which weighed upon her mind, for I have never met so utterly spoiled and so ill-natured a little creature.
She is a sunbeam in my house--sweet, loving, beautiful, a wonderful manager and housekeeper, yet as tender and quiet and gentle as a woman could be.
Monica,' said I, 'and half a sovereign if you reach it in twenty minutes.' It was twenty-five minutes to twelve, and of course it was clear enough what was in the wind.
Again a startled look came over the somewhat vacuous face of Miss Mary Sutherland.
It arrived upon Christmas morning, in company with a good fat goose, which is, I have no doubt, roasting at this moment in front of Peterson's fire.
You did not tell me that you intended to go into harness." "Then, how do you know?" "I see it, I deduce it.
Those, I think, were the main points of my analysis." Holmes grinned at the last item.
It ran, if I remember right, 'sent the pips to A, B, and C'--that is, sent the society's warning to them.
"Frankly, then, madam, I do not." "You think that he is dead?" "I do." "Murdered?" "I don't say that.
It was instantly opened by a bright-looking, clean-shaven young fellow, who asked him to step in.
I trust, sir, that you will succeed in proving, what I feel sure is the truth, that my cousin Arthur is innocent of this crime." "I fully share your opinion, and I trust, with you, that we may prove it," returned Holmes, going back to the mat to knock the snow from his shoes.
It is a hat of the very best quality.
I was inclined to think at one time that he knew who had done it and was screening him or her, but I am convinced now that he is as puzzled as everyone else.
"That's it!" cried Hatherley, in intense excitement.
Rucastle.
"'Well,' said he, showing me the advertisement, 'you can see for yourself that the League has a vacancy, and there is the address where you should apply for particulars.
Paul's.' "I started off, Mr.
"Last week he hurled the local blacksmith over a parapet into a stream, and it was only by paying over all the money which I could gather together that I was able to avert another public exposure.
The puny plot of the story was so thin, however, when compared to the deep mystery through which we were groping, and I found my attention wander so continually from the action to the fact, that I at last flung it across the room and gave myself up entirely to a consideration of the events of the day.
This press, as I have already explained, has got out of order, and we wish your advice upon the subject.
What else could she do?
Shall be glad if you will come with me.
Thrust away behind a curtain in the front room were all the clothes of Mr.
Those are all the notices which appeared before the disappearance of the bride." "Before the what?" asked Holmes with a start.
His lip had fallen, his eyes were protruding, his skin the colour of putty, and he glared at the envelope which he still held in his trembling hand, 'K.
Willows says that he is a wreck and that his nervous system is shattered.
Roylott's chamber?" "Exactly so.
He is dark, handsome, and dashing, never calls less than once a day, and often twice.
Having measured these very carefully from seven or eight different points, Holmes desired to be led to the court-yard, from which we all followed the winding track which led to Boscombe Pool.
Finally he took the bell-rope in his hand and gave it a brisk tug.
Come this way, if you please." He led us down a passage, opened a barred door, passed down a winding stair, and brought us to a whitewashed corridor with a line of doors on each side.
In a fit of anger, however, caused by some robberies which had been perpetrated in the house, he beat his native butler to death and narrowly escaped a capital sentence.
"He looked inside the envelope.
Just as he finished, however, we drove through two scattered villages, where a few lights still glimmered in the windows.
"What could he have done single-handed against a man in the prime of life?" "He is a cripple in the sense that he walks with a limp; but in other respects he appears to be a powerful and well-nurtured man.
"The murder was done with it." "I see no marks." "There are none." "How do you know, then?" "The grass was growing under it.
"It came by the last post," said he.
Because he limped--he was lame." "But his left-handedness." "You were yourself struck by the nature of the injury as recorded by the surgeon at the inquest.
When I have spun the web they may take the flies, but not before." All day I was engaged in my professional work, and it was late in the evening before I returned to Baker Street.
But really I think that we are wandering rather far from the point." "Lady St.
"What do you think, Watson?
Then who could this American be, and why should he possess so much influence over her?
I settled myself down in the corner of the carriage and read it very carefully.
And now you see the deadly urgency of this new case, and why I urged young Openshaw to caution.
"May I see it?" "Certainly." He snatched it from her in his eagerness, and smoothing it out upon the table he drew over the lamp and examined it intently.
Ah!
I sat up in my chair, and my wife laid her needle-work down in her lap and made a little face of disappointment.
"I say, Watson, what o'clock is it?" "Nearly eleven." "Of what day?" "Of Friday, June 19th." "Good heavens!
And what does she propose to do with the photograph?" "To ruin me." "But how?" "I am about to be married." "So I have heard." "To Clotilde Lothman von Saxe-Meningen, second daughter of the King of Scandinavia.
It gave even my hardened nerves a shudder to look at it.
As it pulled up, one of the loafing men at the corner dashed forward to open the door in the hope of earning a copper, but was elbowed away by another loafer, who had rushed up with the same intention.
"You then roused his anger by calling him names at a moment when he felt that he had deserved your warmest thanks.
The road topped a low hill, and there was a great widespread whitewashed building in front of us, spouting fire at every chink and window, while in the garden in front three fire-engines were vainly striving to keep the flames under.
Hardy, who used to be our foreman, and it was there I met Mr.
But the instant that she was gone he realised how crushing a misfortune this would be for you, and how all-important it was to set it right.
"Ha!
"'Why, what on earth does this mean, John?' he stammered.
The possession of a grey garment was a third point which, granting the son's statement to be correct, was a certainty.
He is as brave as a bulldog and as tenacious as a lobster if he gets his claws upon anyone.
I suppose there would be no chance of a train back.
But I must owe something.
The sight of the safe, the saucer of milk, and the loop of whipcord were enough to finally dispel any doubts which may have remained.
The total income, which at the time of the wife's death was little short of £1100, is now, through the fall in agricultural prices, not more than £750.
If you show us what is wrong we shall soon set it right ourselves.
McCarthy was in favour of it." A quick blush passed over her fresh young face as Holmes shot one of his keen, questioning glances at her.
It is evidently trying to your nerves." "Oh, no, not now.
Lestrade would have noted even so self-evident a thing as that." "How on earth--" "My dear fellow, I know you well.
Three gilt balls and a brown board with "Jabez Wilson" in white letters, upon a corner house, announced the place where our red-headed client carried on his business.
Why, all the morning he was saying to me that, whatever happened, I was to be true; and that even if something quite unforeseen occurred to separate us, I was always to remember that I was pledged to him, and that he would claim his pledge sooner or later.
"Well, you can imagine how hard it was to settle down to arduous work at £2 a week when I knew that I could earn as much in a day by smearing my face with a little paint, laying my cap on the ground, and sitting still.
"Good-evening, Mr.
Well, Mrs.
Instead of making friends and exchanging visits with our neighbours, who had at first been overjoyed to see a Roylott of Stoke Moran back in the old family seat, he shut himself up in his house and seldom came out save to indulge in ferocious quarrels with whoever might cross his path.
I think, Watson, that it would be as well for you to have your pistol ready." The words were hardly out of his mouth before a man appeared at the door of the room, a very fat and burly man, with a heavy stick in his hand.
We have still time to take a train to Hereford and see him to-night?" "Ample." "Then let us do so.
"No, it is not selfishness or conceit," said he, answering, as was his wont, my thoughts rather than my words.
"It was only yesterday that the chance came.
Then I seized my coat, which was weighted by the coppers which I had just transferred to it from the leather bag in which I carried my takings.
I heard from Major Prendergast how you saved him in the Tankerville Club scandal." "Ah, of course.
"My name," said he, "is John Openshaw, but my own affairs have, as far as I can understand, little to do with this awful business.
A few yards off he stopped under a lamp-post and laughed in the hearty, noiseless fashion which was peculiar to him.
You see no difficulty, heh?' "'I should be happy to make myself useful.' "'Quite so.
Now, let me just run over the course of events, and you will contradict me if I go wrong." The man sat huddled up in his chair, with his head sunk upon his breast, like one who is utterly crushed.
It seems that a young lady has arrived in a considerable state of excitement, who insists upon seeing me.
His wife is a very tall and strong woman with a sour face, as silent as Mrs.
'I know that clerks are sometimes curious as to their master's affairs.
McCarthy threatened.
This terrible secret society was formed by some ex-Confederate soldiers in the Southern states after the Civil War, and it rapidly formed local branches in different parts of the country, notably in Tennessee, Louisiana, the Carolinas, Georgia, and Florida.
"It is really very good of you to come, Watson," said he.
"Capital!
He shall find me ready when he comes back." For all the preposterous hat and the vacuous face, there was something noble in the simple faith of our visitor which compelled our respect.
Now for the facts.
"This is the Dundas separation case, and, as it happens, I was engaged in clearing up some small points in connection with it.
Then he tried the various keys in the lock, but without success.
I have every reason to believe that we shall be in time to stop it.
"What on earth can be the matter with him?" I asked.
I know the military neatness which characterises you.
My sister Julia and I were twins, and we were only two years old at the time of my mother's re-marriage.
Holmes, but I cannot do that.
It was not merely that Holmes changed his costume.
I have a professional commission for you, but absolute secrecy is quite essential--absolute secrecy, you understand, and of course we may expect that more from a man who is alone than from one who lives in the bosom of his family.' "'If I promise to keep a secret,' said I, 'you may absolutely depend upon my doing so.' "He looked very hard at me as I spoke, and it seemed to me that I had never seen so suspicious and questioning an eye.
"'Do you mean that it disappeared before you went for help?' "'Yes, it was gone.' "'You cannot say what it was?' "'No, I had a feeling something was there.' "'How far from the body?' "'A dozen yards or so.' "'And how far from the edge of the wood?' "'About the same.' "'Then if it was removed it was while you were within a dozen yards of it?' "'Yes, but with my back towards it.' "This concluded the examination of the witness." "I see," said I as I glanced down the column, "that the coroner in his concluding remarks was rather severe upon young McCarthy.
Did you remark the postmarks of those letters?" "The first was from Pondicherry, the second from Dundee, and the third from London." "From East London.
You see this little book?" "Well?" "That's the list of the folk from whom I buy.
His signet-ring." "And you are sure that this is your husband's hand?" "One of his hands." "One?" "His hand when he wrote hurriedly.
She heard Mr.
I travelled in my youth, took to the stage, and finally became a reporter on an evening paper in London.
Holmes: I am very anxious to consult you as to whether I should or should not accept a situation which has been offered to me as governess.
"What can he hope to find there?
McCarthy came running up to the lodge to say that he had found his father dead in the wood, and to ask for the help of the lodge-keeper.
I am so frightened about him!" It was not the first time that she had spoken to us of her husband's trouble, to me as a doctor, to my wife as an old friend and school companion.
It was a beautiful moonlight night, and the lawn in front of the house was silvered over and almost as bright as day.
My wife is very anxious that you should come, for she has been much attracted by my description of you.
'You see it is really confined to Londoners, and to grown men.
And about his quarrel with his father, I am sure that the reason why he would not speak about it to the coroner was because I was concerned in it." "In what way?" asked Holmes.
Perhaps it would have been better for both of us had I been sterner, but I meant it for the best.
It is well thought of!" "What do you mean?" He took an orange from the cupboard, and tearing it to pieces he squeezed out the pips upon the table.
who?
See the advantages of a cabman as a confidant.
Her young womanhood had, I knew, been spent in rough scenes and under strange conditions.
I never noticed that before." "Very strange!" muttered Holmes, pulling at the rope.
"Ha!
To the best of his belief, the father was actually in sight at the time, and the son was following him.
I hardly looked at his face.
"Eglow, Eglonitz--here we are, Egria.
Ha!
You have lost nothing by them." "No, sir.
I was the only passenger who got out there, and there was no one upon the platform save a single sleepy porter with a lantern.
Neville St.
An inspection of his chair showed me that he had been in the habit of standing on it, which of course would be necessary in order that he should reach the ventilator.
"'Ah!' said he, 'you must not think me rude if I passed you without a word, my dear young lady.
it is too late--forever too late!
and Mrs.
Two thousand five hundred pounds was the amount, but I can only touch the interest." "You interest me extremely," said Holmes.
I threw myself, screaming, against the door, and dragged with my nails at the lock.
Bring him into the sitting-room.
What could that mean?
"There are one or two very singular points about this room.
Our party is complete," said Holmes, buttoning up his pea-jacket and taking his heavy hunting crop from the rack.
He came back alone, for Lestrade was staying in lodgings in the town.
There must have been several in it, and they must have been men of resource and determination.
And where was the place?
You had heard, Ryder, of this blue stone of the Countess of Morcar's?" "It was Catherine Cusack who told me of it," said he in a crackling voice.
"I fancy that my pal is all right, though I see you have got his coat-tails." "There are three men waiting for him at the door," said Holmes.
It is a pure matter of form.
'There is water in your eyes,' said he as he released me.
Looking over his shoulder, I saw that on the pavement opposite there stood a large woman with a heavy fur boa round her neck, and a large curling red feather in a broad-brimmed hat which was tilted in a coquettish Duchess of Devonshire fashion over her ear.
Its disappearance, however, was but momentary.
So now!" "Oh, it is a matter of no importance; but I don't know why you should be so warm over such a trifle." "Warm!
Then my friend rose and threw open the door.
At the time of the war he fought in Jackson's army, and afterwards under Hood, where he rose to be a colonel.
He took the more chivalrous view, however, and preserved her secret." "And that was why she shrieked and fainted when she saw the coronet," cried Mr.
How long they seemed, those quarters!
She had the surest information that of late he had, when the fit was on him, made use of an opium den in the farthest east of the City.
Besides, it is the season of forgiveness.
"Then what are they?
"What's in here?" he asked, tapping the safe.
It was a few weeks before my own marriage, during the days when I was still sharing rooms with Holmes in Baker Street, that he came home from an afternoon stroll to find a letter on the table waiting for him.
What could be the reason of his overpowering terror?
"'Fritz!
"Convinced that something was amiss with him, she rushed down the steps--for the house was none other than the opium den in which you found me to-night--and running through the front room she attempted to ascend the stairs which led to the first floor.
"Great heavens!" cried the inspector, "it is, indeed, the missing man.
I may be on the trail in this matter, or I may be following a will-o'-the-wisp, but I shall soon know which it is.
I had not an idea who you were when you came in." "I didn't know what to do, so I came straight to you." That was always the way.
Rucastle, walking up and down on the other side of the room, began to tell me a series of the funniest stories that I have ever listened to.
All will come well.
The men had known each other in the colonies, so that it was not unnatural that when they came to settle down they should do so as near each other as possible.
Two attempts of the sort have already been made.
The larger crimes are apt to be the simpler, for the bigger the crime the more obvious, as a rule, is the motive.
But he could not help me in any way.
Jabez Wilson,' said my assistant, 'and he is willing to fill a vacancy in the League.' "'And he is admirably suited for it,' the other answered.
Armitage, of Crane Water, near Reading.
A brown chest of drawers stood in one corner, a narrow white-counterpaned bed in another, and a dressing-table on the left-hand side of the window.
"It is said that Mr.
I look at them, and the only thought which comes to me is a feeling of their isolation and of the impunity with which crime may be committed there." "Good heavens!" I cried.
"Name the sum, and I will pay it." "No, the debt is not to me.
We feed him once a day, and not too much then, so that he is always as keen as mustard.
"You have already imperilled the whole success of our expedition.
With hardly a word spoken, but with a kindly eye, he waved me to an armchair, threw across his case of cigars, and indicated a spirit case and a gasogene in the corner.
"Frankly, now!" she repeated, standing upon the rug and looking keenly down at him as he leaned back in a basket-chair.
But between ourselves, Windibank, it was as cruel and selfish and heartless a trick in a petty way as ever came before me.
"You've heard about me, Mr.
I walked round it and examined it closely from every point of view, but without noting anything else of interest.
"'Or to sit here, or sit there, that would not be offensive to you?' "'Oh, no.' "'Or to cut your hair quite short before you come to us?' "I could hardly believe my ears.
I met him that night, and he called next day to ask if we had got home all safe, and after that we met him--that is to say, Mr.
"It is so.
"The name is familiar to me," said he.
You will find it here, and may read it for yourself." He picked out from his bundle a copy of the local Herefordshire paper, and having turned down the sheet he pointed out the paragraph in which the unfortunate young man had given his own statement of what had occurred.
"Will you go?" "I really don't know what to say.
Hosmer--Mr.
Come!' "'What then?' I asked.
My heart turned to water, for there was no sign of the stone, and I knew that some terrible mistake had occurred.
Clair, I was arrested as his murderer.
My clothes were all sodden with dew, and my coat-sleeve was drenched with blood from my wounded thumb.
"Let me see!" said Holmes.
Sometimes Holmes would hurry on, sometimes stop dead, and once he made quite a little detour into the meadow.
Let me introduce you to Mr.
Why should I slink away without having carried out my commission, and without the payment which was my due?
Twenty-nine, I see.
His nostrils seemed to dilate with a purely animal lust for the chase, and his mind was so absolutely concentrated upon the matter before him that a question or remark fell unheeded upon his ears, or, at the most, only provoked a quick, impatient snarl in reply.
You fail, however, to reason from what you see.
He and the two mates, are as I learn, the only native-born Americans in the ship.
Good-bye, and God help you in your undertaking." She hurried from the room as impulsively as she had entered, and we heard the wheels of her carriage rattle off down the street.
He had ceased to strike and was gazing up at the ventilator when suddenly there broke from the silence of the night the most horrible cry to which I have ever listened.
It is of importance.
I am not over-tender of heart, but I call it cruel." "I think that I see my way to clearing James McCarthy," said Holmes.
There have been two murders, a vitriol-throwing, a suicide, and several robberies brought about for the sake of this forty-grain weight of crystallised charcoal.
He is not a bad fellow, though an absolute imbecile in his profession.
I am sure you could never guess how I employed my morning, or what I ended by doing." "I can't imagine.
By the light of the corridor-lamp I saw my sister appear at the opening, her face blanched with terror, her hands groping for help, her whole figure swaying to and fro like that of a drunkard.
I didn't know what to do.
"Why, you are like a magician," said she.
Jones, it is all right," said the stranger with deference.
You quite follow me?" "Entirely." "It is nothing very formidable," he said, taking a long cigar-shaped roll from his pocket.
"Good-evening.
On the whole, it was most probable that the silent Englishman, being less bold or less murderous than his companion, had assisted the woman to bear the unconscious man out of the way of danger.
"Did I not tell you how quick and resolute she was?
"My heart had turned to lead.
Mr.
"So much for the Lascar manager.
By degrees Mr.
The man who entered was young, some two-and-twenty at the outside, well-groomed and trimly clad, with something of refinement and delicacy in his bearing.
He was young, not more than five-and-twenty, I should say, with a strong, masculine face; but he was exceedingly pale and gave me the impression of a man who was suffering from some strong agitation, which it took all his strength of mind to control.
I shall take nothing for granted until I have the opportunity of looking personally into it.
I shall take your advice in every particular." He shook hands with us and took his leave.
"I know you, you scoundrel!
Don't wait up for me in case I should be late." "How are you getting on?" "Oh, so so.
She used to be at the Allegro.
She came to Mr.
"Why should you raise up hopes which you are bound to disappoint?
Holmes, when she married again so soon after father's death, and a man who was nearly fifteen years younger than herself.
Saviour's, near King's Cross, and we were to have breakfast afterwards at the St.
I suppose that we are absolutely safe from eavesdroppers?' "'Entirely.' "'Then the matter stands thus.
Holmes dashed into the crowd to protect the lady; but just as he reached her he gave a cry and dropped to the ground, with the blood running freely down his face.
Sherlock Holmes sat silent for some few minutes, with his brows knitted and his eyes fixed upon the fire.
Doran's door just after we returned, and she endeavoured to push her way in, uttering very abusive expressions towards my wife, and even threatening her, but I had foreseen the possibility of something of the sort, and I had two police fellows there in private clothes, who soon pushed her out again.
Duncan Ross was there to see that I got fairly to work.
Twice my boy has asked her to marry him, for he loves her devotedly, but each time she has refused him.
Mr.
At present it is out of my power to reward you for your services, but in a month or six weeks I shall be married, with the control of my own income, and then at least you shall not find me ungrateful." Holmes turned to his desk and, unlocking it, drew out a small case-book, which he consulted.
"Have you ever observed that his ears are pierced for earrings?" "Yes, sir.
Pray what is your own theory as to what took place?" "Well, really, I came to seek a theory, not to propound one.
Out of the window he must apparently have gone for no other exit could be discovered, and the ominous bloodstains upon the sill gave little promise that he could save himself by swimming, for the tide was at its very highest at the moment of the tragedy.
Wilson?" "Well, it is just as I have been telling you, Mr.
"It is easy to see that your experience has been no common one, Mr.
"'You may as well face the matter,' said I; 'you have been caught in the act, and no confession could make your guilt more heinous.
I shall be happy to give you an opinion upon the subject in the course of a day or two.
The same post brought me a letter from Westhouse & Marbank, of Fenchurch Street, to say that the description tallied in every respect with that of their employee, James Windibank.
It's not a very large affair, and of late years it has not done more than just give me a living.
Simon to me--seemed to me from the little I heard as if he had a little secret of his own before marriage also--but I managed to get away from her and soon overtook Frank.
Yet when I think of him in cold blood, far away from the glamour of his presence, I am convinced from his cynical speech and the look which I have caught in his eyes that he is one who should be deeply distrusted.
Of my mother!
I shall certainly do as you advise." "Do not lose an instant.
We have come now out of mere vagueness to the definite conception of an Australian from Ballarat with a grey cloak." "Certainly." "And one who was at home in the district, for the pool can only be approached by the farm or by the estate, where strangers could hardly wander." "Quite so." "Then comes our expedition of to-day.
"'If you please, Miss Stoper.' "'Well, really, it seems rather useless, since you refuse the most excellent offers in this fashion,' said she sharply.
"Thank you for this information," said he.
He is not a very quick-witted youth, though comely to look at and, I should think, sound at heart." "I cannot admire his taste," I remarked, "if it is indeed a fact that he was averse to a marriage with so charming a young lady as this Miss Turner." "Ah, thereby hangs a rather painful tale.
There were no signs of violence, no footmarks, no robbery, no record of strangers having been seen upon the roads.
I was a young chap then, hot-blooded and reckless, ready to turn my hand at anything; I got among bad companions, took to drink, had no luck with my claim, took to the bush, and in a word became what you would call over here a highway robber.
In a hundred other ways he has helped him.
"Witness: I must still refuse.
Air and scenery perfect.
Here's half a crown.
I had, as you know, cut off my hair in London, and I had placed it in a great coil at the bottom of my trunk.
"One day--it was in March, 1883--a letter with a foreign stamp lay upon the table in front of the colonel's plate.
Yet his actions were in absurd contrast to the dignity of his dress and features, for he was running hard, with occasional little springs, such as a weary man gives who is little accustomed to set any tax upon his legs.
Watson, before whom you can speak as freely as before myself.
"Try the settee," said Holmes, relapsing into his armchair and putting his fingertips together, as was his custom when in judicial moods.
It was found in the banks of the Amoy River in southern China and is remarkable in having every characteristic of the carbuncle, save that it is blue in shade instead of ruby red.
My father was a schoolmaster in Chesterfield, where I received an excellent education.
As I was already in debt to my tradesmen, the advance was a great convenience, and yet there was something unnatural about the whole transaction which made me wish to know a little more before I quite committed myself.
They talk of woman's instinct; perhaps it was woman's instinct which gave me that feeling.
Eventually, in the year 1869, the movement rather suddenly collapsed, although there have been sporadic outbreaks of the same sort since that date.' "You will observe," said Holmes, laying down the volume, "that the sudden breaking up of the society was coincident with the disappearance of Openshaw from America with their papers.
Holmes, I met him twice for walks, but after that father came back again, and Mr.
At eleven o'clock she rose to leave me, but she paused at the door and looked back.
It is a perfectly overpowering impulse, and I have more than once taken advantage of it.
There was no sign of a place whence it had been taken.
Tiptoes!
Sherlock Holmes pushed him down into the easy-chair and, sitting beside him, patted his hand and chatted with him in the easy, soothing tones which he knew so well how to employ.
She is four-and-twenty." "This matter, from what you say, seems to have been a shock to her also." "Terrible!
I won't have a fuss made about such nonsense.' "It was in vain to argue with him, for he was a very obstinate man.
Supposing that this unhappy young man's story were absolutely true, then what hellish thing, what absolutely unforeseen and extraordinary calamity could have occurred between the time when he parted from his father, and the moment when, drawn back by his screams, he rushed into the glade?
James and his father had many disagreements about me.
As to his remark about his deserts, it was also not unnatural if you consider that he stood beside the dead body of his father, and that there is no doubt that he had that very day so far forgotten his filial duty as to bandy words with him, and even, according to the little girl whose evidence is so important, to raise his hand as if to strike him.
Mary and Arthur were much interested and wished to see the famous coronet, but I thought it better not to disturb it.
Then, when they talked of marrying within the week, I began to ask about father; but they both said never to mind about father, but just to tell him afterwards, and mother said she would make it all right with him.
Could you swear to it?" "That was what the county coroner asked me at the inquiry.
Can you remember any other little things about Mr.
"'I am afraid that it is quite essential,' said he.
For two streets he shuffled along with a bent back and an uncertain foot.
I didn't quite like that, Mr.
It is a subject to which I have devoted some little attention.
Roylott's conduct had long been notorious in the county, but he was unable to find any satisfactory cause of death.
I rushed forward, fell down, clapped my hand to my face, and became a piteous spectacle.
Perhaps, Mr.
One of the footmen declared that he had seen a lady leave the house thus apparelled, but had refused to credit that it was his mistress, believing her to be with the company.
"They have but one retreat," whispered Holmes.
I found her to be a silent, pale-faced woman, much younger than her husband, not more than thirty, I should think, while he can hardly be less than forty-five.
Jabez Wilson started up in his chair, with his forefinger upon the paper, but his eyes upon my companion.
"Our friend here is a wonderful man for starting a chase.
Breckinridge," he continued, buttoning up his coat as we came out into the frosty air.
The point is, have you or have you not the bearing and deportment of a lady?
This is only where we compress it.
The singular incident made, as you may think, the deepest impression upon me, and I pondered over it and turned it every way in my mind without being able to make anything of it.
"When I got back I told my maid, who had known him in California, and had always been his friend.
"Yes, sir, that be the house of Dr.
"I am saved!
"'May I ask where you live, sir?' said I.
I have here four letters which purport to come from the missing man.
There is one point which I should wish to determine." He squatted down in front of the wooden chair and examined the seat of it with the greatest attention.
Here we may take it that there is a love matter, but that the maiden is not so much angry as perplexed, or grieved.
You must find your own ink, pens, and blotting-paper, but we provide this table and chair.
He drank more than ever, and he was less inclined for any sort of society.
It was all done in an instant, and there was the gentleman thanking me on the one side and the lady on the other, while the clergyman beamed on me in front.
"It was too far for me to go, weak and ill as I was.
How very impertinent!
I was just balancing whether I should run for it, or whether I should perch behind her landau when a cab came through the street.
This man strikes even deeper, but I think, Watson, that we shall be able to strike deeper still.
You have been brought there to personate someone, and the real person is imprisoned in this chamber.
"Let me see," said Holmes, standing at the corner and glancing along the line, "I should like just to remember the order of the houses here.
Simon said something about 'jumping a claim.' She was accustomed to use slang of the kind.
Should I stop the service and make a scene in the church?
"I can hardly explain to you how interested I am in this matter." Sherlock Holmes hailed a four-wheeler which was passing.
It might be a satisfaction to his Majesty to regain it with his own hands." "And when will you call?" "At eight in the morning.
John Horner, 26, plumber, was brought up upon the charge of having upon the 22nd inst.
You cannot imagine how comical he was, and I laughed until I was quite weary.
Merryweather, who is to be our companion in to-night's adventure." "We're hunting in couples again, Doctor, you see," said Jones in his consequential way.
Then he turned down the lamp, and we were left in darkness.
It must always be in the same relative position to the ventilator and to the rope--or so we may call it, since it was clearly never meant for a bell-pull." "Holmes," I cried, "I seem to see dimly what you are hinting at.
Holmes?" he asked.
Then I could produce your confession at the last extremity to save young McCarthy.
And many men have been wrongfully hanged." "What is the young man's own account of the matter?" "It is, I am afraid, not very encouraging to his supporters, though there are one or two points in it which are suggestive.
Turner's lodge-keeper, his house being the nearest, to ask for assistance.
But what in the name of the devil!" The ejaculation had been drawn from my companion by the fact that our door had been suddenly dashed open, and that a huge man had framed himself in the aperture.
'We are in a civilised land here, and we can't have tomfoolery of this kind.
"You will excuse my troubling you, I am sure," said she, as my companion rose to greet her, "but I have had a very strange experience, and as I have no parents or relations of any sort from whom I could ask advice, I thought that perhaps you would be kind enough to tell me what I should do." "Pray take a seat, Miss Hunter.
Mr.
"My cabby drove fast.
The other was his singular dying reference to a rat.
"Really, Mr.
I knew that none had fallen since the evening before, and also that there had been a strong frost to preserve impressions.
I'm not rich, but still I have a hundred a year in my own right, besides the little that I make by the machine, and I would give it all to know what has become of Mr.
Holmes, and I soon had a pretty good plan of the whole house in my head.
I wouldn't frighten Kate--poor little Kate.
"I am Dr.
There was no slit through which a knife could be passed to raise the bar.
Holmes, my hair is somewhat luxuriant, and of a rather peculiar tint of chestnut.
Her dress was brown, rather darker than coffee colour, with a little purple plush at the neck and sleeves.
"Someone has loosed the dog.
It must be done at once.
Merryweather as we followed them from the cellar, "I do not know how the bank can thank you or repay you.
Clair through the window, there is no human eye which could have seen the deed.
What a shrimp it is, to be sure!" For a moment he had staggered and nearly fallen, but the brandy brought a tinge of colour into his cheeks, and he sat staring with frightened eyes at his accuser.
I gave a cry of surprise, threw up my arms to cover my face, and, rushing to my confidant, the Lascar, entreated him to prevent anyone from coming up to me.
As well as I could learn, Miss Alice had rights of her own by will, but she was so quiet and patient, she was, that she never said a word about them but just left everything in Mr.
"The Coroner: What did you understand by that?
Do you think it points to suicide?" "No, no, nothing of the kind.
There is no reason, therefore, to think that money troubles have been weighing upon his mind.
But how--" "Was there a secret marriage?" "None." "No legal papers or certificates?" "None." "Then I fail to follow your Majesty.
You would certainly have been burned, had you lived a few centuries ago.
It was a delicate point, and it widened the field of my inquiry.
Someone in the next room had lit a dark-lantern.
Then I thought of you, Mr.
"Yes, only one." "Did you observe the colour?" "Yes, I saw it by the side-lights when I was stepping into the carriage.
'You'll do.
Well, that is a list of my town suppliers.
I ordered her to say nothing, but to get a few things packed and my ulster ready.
You must yourself have remarked how worn, wrinkled, and stained they were.
Do not join in it.
I was at once convinced from what you had told me that the latter was your son.
The daughter was of a good, amiable disposition, but affectionate and warm-hearted in her ways, so that it was evident that with her fair personal advantages, and her little income, she would not be allowed to remain single long.
The Rucastles will be gone by that time, and Toller will, we hope, be incapable.
But that was not quite good enough, Mr.
We soothed and comforted her by such words as we could find.
Violence of temper approaching to mania has been hereditary in the men of the family, and in my stepfather's case it had, I believe, been intensified by his long residence in the tropics.
Aloysius Doran, the Duchess of Balmoral, Lord Backwater, Lord Eustace and Lady Clara St.
My practice had steadily increased, and as I happened to live at no very great distance from Paddington Station, I got a few patients from among the officials.
Until after the alarm of fire, I had not a suspicion.
Oh, what shall I do!" He put a hand on either side of his head and rocked himself to and fro, droning to himself like a child whose grief has got beyond words.
He would see it through the ventilator." I nodded again.
"'It is absolutely essential to me,' said he, 'that I should have £50,000 at once.
There was a little shed in the yard, and behind this I drove one of the birds--a fine big one, white, with a barred tail.
"Not invisible but unnoticed, Watson.
Here is the stone; the stone came from the goose, and the goose came from Mr.
"At least," said I as we heard her quick, firm steps descending the stairs, "she seems to be a young lady who is very well able to take care of herself." "And she would need to be," said Holmes gravely.
"It is so long a chain, and yet every link rings true." "It saved me from ennui," he answered, yawning.
Would you give me an introduction to him?" "I'll do better.
You are screening your stepfather." "Why, what do you mean?" For answer Holmes pushed back the frill of black lace which fringed the hand that lay upon our visitor's knee.
"It will very much depend upon the results of my first inquiries.
Who do you give your casting vote to?" "You are all wrong." "But we can't all be." "Oh, yes, you can.
It is all right." "You have the photograph?" "I know where it is." "And how did you find out?" "She showed me, as I told you she would." "I am still in the dark." "I do not wish to make a mystery," said he, laughing.
John Turner, who made his money in Australia and returned some years ago to the old country.
We shall then look thoroughly into the affair.
I fear that I have brought some traces of the storm and rain into your snug chamber." "Give me your coat and umbrella," said Holmes.
That represents the last time that the colonel needed to have his machine overhauled, I fancy." "Good heavens!" cried my patient.
yes, I see.
Neville St.
Becher a German, very thin, with a long, sharp nose?" The station-master laughed heartily.
Then, again, the introduction of his name will cause him to see it, for everyone who knows him will direct his attention to it.
"Awake, Watson?" he asked.
He used to make merry over the cleverness of women, but I have not heard him do it of late.
For a while he could not get his words out, but swayed his body and plucked at his hair like one who has been driven to the extreme limits of his reason.
McCarthy and his son, and that they appeared to be having a violent quarrel.
It may well have been cause and effect.
But what was she to do?
"How is the glass?
"You are fresh from a night journey, I understand, which is in itself a monotonous occupation." "Oh, my night could not be called monotonous," said he, and laughed.
It was not a common thing for him to receive letters, for his bills were all paid in ready money, and he had no friends of any sort.
Everybody about here speaks of his kindness to him." "Really!
I would not have missed it for worlds.
Mr.
And underneath?" "'Sold to Mr.
Could your patients spare you for a few hours?" "I have nothing to do to-day.
I am a widower and have an only son, Arthur.
"The vanishing of the lady." "When did she vanish, then?" "At the wedding breakfast." "Indeed.
Among these he rummaged and read, with intervals of note-taking and of meditation, until we were past Reading.
Pray take the basket-chair.
As I turned to speak to her the brute broke loose and fluttered off among the others.
He was, I take it, the most perfect reasoning and observing machine that the world has seen, but as a lover he would have placed himself in a false position.
My companion sat in the front of the trap, his arms folded, his hat pulled down over his eyes, and his chin sunk upon his breast, buried in the deepest thought.
Then he offered to give us a chance of talking to Lord St.
The table was set out ready for me, and Mr.
We shall just be in time to have a little breakfast with him.
Have the goodness, also, when you address me always to say 'sir' and 'please.'" "All right," said Jones with a stare and a snigger.
I presume that I may take it as correct--this article, for example, as to the disappearance of the bride." Lord St.
And if you ever put your foot over that threshold again'--here in an instant the smile hardened into a grin of rage, and he glared down at me with the face of a demon--'I'll throw you to the mastiff.' "I was so terrified that I do not know what I did.
I imagine that you saw all that I did." "I saw nothing remarkable save the bell-rope, and what purpose that could answer I confess is more than I can imagine." "You saw the ventilator, too?" "Yes, but I do not think that it is such a very unusual thing to have a small opening between two rooms.
She is impetuous--volcanic, I was about to say.
It came right over the forehead and settled upon the bridge of his nose.
Mr.
Beside the couch was a wooden chair, and on the angle of the back hung a very seedy and disreputable hard-felt hat, much the worse for wear, and cracked in several places.
Had he observed a carriage the night before waiting for me?
I was at my wit's end where to get the money, but a sudden idea came to me.
At one side of the coronet was a cracked edge, where a corner holding three gems had been torn away.
I advertised, and I answered advertisements, but without success.
I expect that within an hour matters will come to a head.
"You can imagine from what I say that my poor sister Julia and I had no great pleasure in our lives.
"Incredible imbecility!" he cried.
I felt, however, that when Whitney was once confined in the cab my mission was practically accomplished; and for the rest, I could not wish anything better than to be associated with my friend in one of those singular adventures which were the normal condition of his existence.
That is the true story, gentlemen, of all that occurred." "Well, it is not for me to judge you," said Holmes as the old man signed the statement which had been drawn out.
Where are they?" "I cannot tell." The banker wrung his hands.
For an instant I could hardly believe that here was indeed a door which led away from death.
Well, there is nothing very instructive in all this.
Mark that point.
James Ryder, upper-attendant at the hotel, gave his evidence to the effect that he had shown Horner up to the dressing-room of the Countess of Morcar upon the day of the robbery in order that he might solder the second bar of the grate, which was loose.
Draw up a little to the fire, and we will talk this matter over." "A most painful matter to me, as you can most readily imagine, Mr.
"You have come to me to tell your story, have you not?" said he.
For that matter, Reading, and possibly other large towns, were within that radius, so the place might not be so secluded, after all.
Holmes unlocked his strong-box and held up the blue carbuncle, which shone out like a star, with a cold, brilliant, many-pointed radiance.
My sister asked me what was the matter, and why I was so pale; but I told her that I had been upset by the jewel robbery at the hotel.
"Well, I guess you have every cause to be." "Pray make no apology to me," said Lord St.
If not, I should much prefer to communicate with you alone." I rose to go, but Holmes caught me by the wrist and pushed me back into my chair.
If not, why should you come to consult me?" "I came to you, sir, because I heard of you from Mrs.
When he breathed his vows to her, as he had done to a hundred before her, she flattered herself that she alone had touched his heart.
About two in the morning, then, I was awakened by some sound in the house.
Then I walked to the other end, which was a hundred yards or more down the lane.
Simon," said he "allow me to introduce you to Mr.
"When we were taking coffee in the drawing-room that night after dinner, I told Arthur and Mary my experience, and of the precious treasure which we had under our roof, suppressing only the name of my client.
The pressure of public opinion can do in the town what the law cannot accomplish.
Must I call you a liar as well as a thief?
But will he see it?" "Well, he is sure to keep an eye on the papers, since, to a poor man, the loss was a heavy one.
I confess that I felt easier in my mind when, after following Holmes' example and slipping off my shoes, I found myself inside the bedroom.
"How did you know, for example, that I did manual labour.
Aloysius Doran, at Lancaster Gate, where breakfast had been prepared.
They were a gang, and a rough one, too.
The ceiling of this small chamber is really the end of the descending piston, and it comes down with the force of many tons upon this metal floor.
I assure you that it has not detracted in the tiniest iota from your appearance.
Do not dream of going, Watson, for I very much prefer having a witness, if only as a check to my own memory." "Lord Robert St.
"It goes to the housekeeper's room." "It looks newer than the other things?" "Yes, it was only put there a couple of years ago." "Your sister asked for it, I suppose?" "No, I never heard of her using it.
It seems, from what I gather, to be one of those simple cases which are so extremely difficult." "That sounds a little paradoxical." "But it is profoundly true.
He calls attention, and with reason, to the discrepancy about his father having signalled to him before seeing him, also to his refusal to give details of his conversation with his father, and his singular account of his father's dying words.
This observation of his had the natural effect of removing any traces of doubt which might have remained in the minds of the coroner's jury." "It was a confession," I ejaculated.
Holmes, that to me, destitute as I was, such an offer seemed almost too good to be true.
That left foot of yours with its inward twist is all over the place.
"It makes a considerable difference to me, having someone with me on whom I can thoroughly rely.
Was she his client, his friend, or his mistress?
The window was open, and she distinctly saw his face, which she describes as being terribly agitated.
He was too good and kind to leave me so.
"Yes, there are steps on the landing.
And so you won't cut your hair?' "'No, sir, I really could not,' I answered firmly.
I inquired of him whether he had ever heard of Colonel Lysander Stark.
Inspector Bradstreet, B division, gave evidence as to the arrest of Horner, who struggled frantically, and protested his innocence in the strongest terms.
If the former, she had probably transferred the photograph to his keeping.
What can this be?' Opening it hurriedly, out there jumped five little dried orange pips, which pattered down upon his plate.
The instant that we heard it, Holmes sprang from the bed, struck a match, and lashed furiously with his cane at the bell-pull.
"'Dear me!' he said gravely, 'that is very serious indeed!
His face set hard, and a baleful light sprang up in his grey eyes.
I swear it.
Rucastle let me out when he came back before he went up to you.
"The ideal reasoner," he remarked, "would, when he had once been shown a single fact in all its bearings, deduce from it not only all the chain of events which led up to it but also all the results which would follow from it.
There was no place about the hotel where it would be safe.
An examination showed that one of the india-rubber bands which was round the head of a driving-rod had shrunk so as not quite to fill the socket along which it worked.
You infer that she may have gone out to tell her sweetheart, and that the two may have planned the robbery." "But what is the good of all these vague theories," cried the banker impatiently, "when I have told you that I saw Arthur with the coronet in his hands?" "Wait a little, Mr.
In the pocket is a card-case.
Holmes," she cried, "else how could you know all that?" "Never mind," said Holmes, laughing; "it is my business to know things.
"I am ashamed of you, Holmes," said Lestrade with dignity after a few minutes' silence.
An important addition has been made during the last week to the list of the prizes which have been borne away by these charming invaders.
Rucastle then, I presume, took to this system of imprisonment?" "Yes, sir." "And brought Miss Hunter down from London in order to get rid of the disagreeable persistence of Mr.
With a nod he vanished into the bedroom, whence he emerged in five minutes tweed-suited and respectable, as of old.
"You are the first who have ever heard my story.
"What do you imagine that it means?" "I have no data yet.
"Boscombe Valley is a country district not very far from Ross, in Herefordshire.
"Oh, no, sir!
Let the weight of the matter rest upon me now, and do not let your mind dwell upon it further.
Miss Stoner turned white to the lips as she listened.
You have heard something, Mr.
I only wonder I didn't fall down and do a faint right there before the altar." "Perhaps, Mrs.
Yet when I spoke to her of the matter, she answered me abruptly; and in the carriage, on our way home, she seemed absurdly agitated over this trifling cause." "Indeed!
Having taken the printed description, I eliminated everything from it which could be the result of a disguise--the whiskers, the glasses, the voice, and I sent it to the firm, with a request that they would inform me whether it answered to the description of any of their travellers.
It was a quiet, little, plainly furnished room, with a round table in the centre, on which several German books were scattered.
He drew a sovereign from his pocket and threw it down upon the slab, turning away with the air of a man whose disgust is too deep for words.
My first glance is always at a woman's sleeve.
It was a pretty expensive joke for them, for it cost them two and thirty pounds." "We shall endeavour to clear up these points for you.
Ferguson and I will take you up to see the machine.' "'I had better put my hat on, I suppose.' "'Oh, no, it is in the house.' "'What, you dig fuller's-earth in the house?' "'No, no.
I could distinguish the outline of an instep where the wet foot had been placed in coming in.
"'You are looking for a situation, miss?' he asked.
Neville wrote those words." "And they were posted to-day at Gravesend.
They were waiting for me in the drawing-room, which is a very large room, stretching along the entire front of the house, with three long windows reaching down to the floor.
Was Under-Secretary for the colonies in a late administration.
"It was a singular document.
Man, or at least criminal man, has lost all enterprise and originality.
"To determine its exact meaning I have been obliged to work out the present prices of the investments with which it is concerned.
Outside, the stars were shining coldly in a cloudless sky, and the breath of the passers-by blew out into smoke like so many pistol shots.
Mrs.
I begged a fortnight's grace from the creditor, asked for a holiday from my employers, and spent the time in begging in the City under my disguise.
It is conjectured that he may have been hurrying down to catch the last train from Waterloo Station, and that in his haste and the extreme darkness he missed his path and walked over the edge of one of the small landing-places for river steamboats.
The discovery that this was a dummy, and that the bed was clamped to the floor, instantly gave rise to the suspicion that the rope was there as a bridge for something passing through the hole and coming to the bed.
I knew that he would be true to me, for I knew one or two things about him; so I made up my mind to go right on to Kilburn, where he lived, and take him into my confidence.
And yet if it were on the lawn, I wonder that you did not hear it also.' "'Ah, but I sleep more heavily than you.' "'Well, it is of no great consequence, at any rate.' She smiled back at me, closed my door, and a few moments later I heard her key turn in the lock." "Indeed," said Holmes.
His cry brought back his son; but I had gained the cover of the wood, though I was forced to go back to fetch the cloak which I had dropped in my flight.
Thank you.
If he is violent, we shall take you away to your aunt's at Harrow.
Don't you see that you alternately give him credit for having too much imagination and too little?
Still, of course, one can't refuse a lady, and such a very positive one, too.
It was soon evident to me that he was now preparing for an all-night sitting.
Hatherley, as being a man who is not only proficient in his profession but is also discreet and capable of preserving a secret.' "I bowed, feeling as flattered as any young man would at such an address.
He was a patentee of the Openshaw unbreakable tire, and his business met with such success that he was able to sell it and to retire upon a handsome competence.
We have already had experience of such." "So much so," I remarked, "that of the last six cases which I have added to my notes, three have been entirely free of any legal crime." "Precisely.
The group of trees, with their dark leaves shining like burnished metal in the light of the setting sun, were sufficient to mark the house even had Miss Hunter not been standing smiling on the door-step.
I know that all is well with him.
Mr.
My pence were duly paid, and the rest is familiar to you.
I sent John, the coachman, to watch you, ran up stairs, got into my walking-clothes, as I call them, and came down just as you departed.
"A pair, by the sound," said he.
'I was admiring your fuller's-earth,' said I; 'I think that I should be better able to advise you as to your machine if I knew what the exact purpose was for which it was used.' "The instant that I uttered the words I regretted the rashness of my speech.
I have already learned all that is in the public prints, nothing more.
"It is of importance that it should not rain before we are able to go over the ground.
"I was shaken but not hurt by the fall; so I picked myself up and rushed off among the bushes as hard as I could run, for I understood that I was far from being out of danger yet.
Indeed, from the direction of the Metropolitan Station no one was coming save the single gentleman whose eccentric conduct had drawn my attention.
This man, however, was leaning against the railings which bordered our field and was looking earnestly up.
Clair.
As far as the church door he brought her, and then, as he could go no farther, he conveniently vanished away by the old trick of stepping in at one door of a four-wheeler and out at the other.
It is true that 'For Mrs.
Frank said that he would go and make his pile, too, and never come back to claim me until he had as much as pa.
Mr.
Here I had heard what he had heard, I had seen what he had seen, and yet from his words it was evident that he saw clearly not only what had happened but what was about to happen, while to me the whole business was still confused and grotesque.
"You can see him very well." We both put our eyes to the grating.
"There," said he, putting a new wedding-ring upon the top of the pile.
"You see," remarked Holmes, as we paced to and fro in front of the house, "this marriage rather simplifies matters.
One day, however, as I ascended the stair, I met Mr.
Now from this double point our research must commence, and we will begin it by presuming that what the lad says is absolutely true." "What of this 'Cooee!' then?" "Well, obviously it could not have been meant for the son.
"No, for it was followed by a protestation of innocence." "Coming on the top of such a damning series of events, it was at least a most suspicious remark." "On the contrary," said Holmes, "it is the brightest rift which I can at present see in the clouds.
The daughter told us as much.
George's, was much addicted to opium.
Then there are successive entries that A and B cleared, or left the country, and finally that C was visited, with, I fear, a sinister result for C.
Hosmer Angel." "I suppose," said Holmes, "that when Mr.
Having laid out all these luxuries, my two visitors vanished away, like the genii of the Arabian Nights, with no explanation save that the things had been paid for and were ordered to this address.
I could see a change in my uncle, however.
I must raise the money in some way, and if you will not let me have it, then I must try other means.' "I was very angry, for this was the third demand during the month.
"I am so delighted that you have come," she said earnestly.
Had I been recognised in that den my life would not have been worth an hour's purchase; for I have used it before now for my own purposes, and the rascally Lascar who runs it has sworn to have vengeance upon me.
If this young person should produce her letters for blackmailing or other purposes, how is she to prove their authenticity?" "There is the writing." "Pooh, pooh!
Good-bye, and be brave, for if you will do what I have told you, you may rest assured that we shall soon drive away the dangers that threaten you." Sherlock Holmes and I had no difficulty in engaging a bedroom and sitting-room at the Crown Inn.
It took all my self-control to prevent me from breaking out into a cry of astonishment.
On the other hand, I would not have given her the name which I have the honour to bear"--he gave a little stately cough--"had not I thought her to be at bottom a noble woman.
"It is for me to ask you that," he shrieked, "you thieves!
It is true that I had a country walk on Thursday and came home in a dreadful mess, but as I have changed my clothes I can't imagine how you deduce it.
You do not know her, but she has a soul of steel.
His appearance, you see, is so remarkable that no one can pass him without observing him.
"You villain!" said he, "where's your daughter?" The fat man cast his eyes round, and then up at the open skylight.
"Why, I have lost four pound a week." "As far as you are personally concerned," remarked Holmes, "I do not see that you have any grievance against this extraordinary league.
In this case I found her biography sandwiched in between that of a Hebrew rabbi and that of a staff-commander who had written a monograph upon the deep-sea fishes.
If he braved the matter out, death would unfailingly come upon him, and usually in some strange and unforeseen manner.
Your recent services to one of the royal houses of Europe have shown that you are one who may safely be trusted with matters which are of an importance which can hardly be exaggerated.
As to Mary Jane, she is incorrigible, and my wife has given her notice, but there, again, I fail to see how you work it out." He chuckled to himself and rubbed his long, nervous hands together.
Some woman came talking something or other about Lord St.
But it was essential that they should use it soon, as it might be discovered, or the bullion might be removed.
No doubt you will go to the prison to see James.
Ferguson.
I was determined to preserve my disguise as long as possible, and hence my preference for a dirty face.
Rucastle met me here and drove me in his dog-cart to the Copper Beeches.
He had, as it appears, been returning from Fareham in the twilight, and as the country was unknown to him, and the chalk-pit unfenced, the jury had no hesitation in bringing in a verdict of 'death from accidental causes.' Carefully as I examined every fact connected with his death, I was unable to find anything which could suggest the idea of murder.
But what could it indicate?
And if it were guilty, why did he not invent a lie?
There were four protruding fingers and a horrid red, spongy surface where the thumb should have been.
But I don't know why it should be tied." "That is not quite so common, is it?
It is only fair to them to say that.
"We shall soon set matters right, I have no doubt.
"I thought at first that you had done something clever, but I see that there was nothing in it, after all." "I begin to think, Watson," said Holmes, "that I make a mistake in explaining.
The habit grew upon him, as I understand, from some foolish freak when he was at college; for having read De Quincey's description of his dreams and sensations, he had drenched his tobacco with laudanum in an attempt to produce the same effects.
"I have just been there, and I have taken it out, and I have got it in this Gladstone bag.
"Never was such a fellow for photography.
We both sprang in, and away we dashed down the London Road.
Now, Mr.
I believe that that is the village inn over there?" "Yes, that is the Crown." "Very good.
Merryweather is the chairman of directors, and he will explain to you that there are reasons why the more daring criminals of London should take a considerable interest in this cellar at present." "It is our French gold," whispered the director.
Jones, of Scotland Yard?
In the latter, as may be remembered, Sherlock Holmes was able, by winding up the dead man's watch, to prove that it had been wound up two hours before, and that therefore the deceased had gone to bed within that time--a deduction which was of the greatest importance in clearing up the case.
You may safely trust him, for he appears to be too limp to get into any mischief.
For example, how did you deduce that this man was intellectual?" For answer Holmes clapped the hat upon his head.
Which was it?" "Breckinridge is his name." "Ah!
But how to get to him in safety?
"I confess that I have been as blind as a mole, but it is better to learn wisdom late than never to learn it at all." In town the earliest risers were just beginning to look sleepily from their windows as we drove through the streets of the Surrey side.
I told my pal what I had done, for he was a man that it was easy to tell a thing like that to.
How quiet and sweet and wholesome the garden looked in the moonlight, and it could not be more than thirty feet down.
And what do you think they found in the pockets?" "I cannot imagine." "No, I don't think you would guess.
"Your case is an exceedingly remarkable one, and I shall be happy to look into it.
My stepfather has offered no opposition to the match, and we are to be married in the course of the spring.
"Listen to this: "'You will see me when all is ready.
"My name, sir; but you have the advantage of me," said my companion quietly.
"The august person who employs me wishes his agent to be unknown to you, and I may confess at once that the title by which I have just called myself is not exactly my own." "I was aware of it," said Holmes dryly.
Twice she has been waylaid.
How cruelly I have misjudged him!" "When I arrived at the house," continued Holmes, "I at once went very carefully round it to observe if there were any traces in the snow which might help me.
I have seen young McCarthy." "And what did you learn from him?" "Nothing." "Could he throw no light?" "None at all.
Bankers' safes had been forced before now, and why should not mine be?
Forgery." "My private note-paper." "Stolen." "My own seal." "Imitated." "My photograph." "Bought." "We were both in the photograph." "Oh, dear!
I had said to her last night, in sorrow and not in anger, that if she had married my boy all might have been well with him.
Ordering my cab to wait, I passed down the steps, worn hollow in the centre by the ceaseless tread of drunken feet; and by the light of a flickering oil-lamp above the door I found the latch and made my way into a long, low room, thick and heavy with the brown opium smoke, and terraced with wooden berths, like the forecastle of an emigrant ship.
These pretended journeys to France were rather cumbrous.
And now here is my pocket Petrarch, and not another word shall I say of this case until we are on the scene of action.
Grimesby Roylott clad in a long grey dressing-gown, his bare ankles protruding beneath, and his feet thrust into red heelless Turkish slippers.
His name is Hugh Boone, and his hideous face is one which is familiar to every man who goes much to the City.
She knows that the King is capable of having her waylaid and searched.
In fact, in the whole of that floor there was no one to be found save a crippled wretch of hideous aspect, who, it seems, made his home there.
Suddenly my eyes caught the glint of a light.
But Holmes shook his head gravely.
It seems that it was.
Roylott had gone to his room early, though we knew that he had not retired to rest, for my sister was troubled by the smell of the strong Indian cigars which it was his custom to smoke.
I thought it was his ghost at first; but when I looked again there he was still, with a kind of question in his eyes, as if to ask me whether I were glad or sorry to see him.
This was clearly the cause of the loss of power, and I pointed it out to my companions, who followed my remarks very carefully and asked several practical questions as to how they should proceed to set it right.
You have come in by train this morning, I see." "You know me, then?" "No, but I observe the second half of a return ticket in the palm of your left glove.
An ordinary man could not do it.
Sherlock Holmes, I believe?" said she.
He made a sweeping bow to the three of us and walked quietly off in the custody of the detective.
He would not go to the police, and he would not go to you, and so at last, as he would do nothing and kept on saying that there was no harm done, it made me mad, and I just on with my things and came right away to you." "Your father," said Holmes, "your stepfather, surely, since the name is different." "Yes, my stepfather.
She laid her little bundle of papers upon the table and went her way, with a promise to come again whenever she might be summoned.
He had remained with Horner some little time, but had finally been called away.
I can only say, madam, that I shall be happy to devote the same care to your case as I did to that of your friend.
Holmes walked slowly up and down the ill-trimmed lawn and examined with deep attention the outsides of the windows.
I am sorry that Miss Sutherland has troubled you about this little matter, for I think it is far better not to wash linen of the sort in public.
Just two months ago." "Very good.
This incident gives zest to our investigation, however, and I only trust that our little friend will not suffer from her imprudence in allowing this brute to trace her.
It is this infernal St.
"'Pon my word, Watson, you are coming along wonderfully.
James's Hall this afternoon," he remarked.
You heard him yourselves to-night.
It was a giant dog, as large as a calf, tawny tinted, with hanging jowl, black muzzle, and huge projecting bones.
I do not know whether he was seized with compunction at that moment for the part he was playing, but I know that I never felt more heartily ashamed of myself in my life than when I saw the beautiful creature against whom I was conspiring, or the grace and kindliness with which she waited upon the injured man.
The name was strange to him.
Now we can talk in safety.' He drew up his chair very close to mine and began to stare at me again with the same questioning and thoughtful look.
"I am delighted to hear it," he said.
"'That will do,' said he; 'I could not ask for anything better.
Simon.
"I took it up and examined it.
Now, what did you gather from that woman's appearance?
We were engaged after the first walk that we took.
Look at the band of ribbed silk and the excellent lining.
It seems that there had been some informality about their license, that the clergyman absolutely refused to marry them without a witness of some sort, and that my lucky appearance saved the bridegroom from having to sally out into the streets in search of a best man.
"What, sir!
It is headed, 'Singular Occurrence at a Fashionable Wedding': "'The family of Lord Robert St.
"There is serious news this morning," Lestrade observed.
I thought at the time that this might be the maid and her sweetheart, of whom you had already spoken to me, and inquiry showed it was so.
He hardly spoke a word the whole way out to the southern suburb, but sat with his chin upon his breast and his hat drawn over his eyes, sunk in the deepest thought.
It was the clank of the levers and the swish of the leaking cylinder.
Tell us what you can, but stop when you are tired and keep up your strength with a little stimulant." "Thank you," said my patient.
"I pray that we may never be exposed to such a temptation." "I pray not, sir.
"Oh, I'm in such trouble!" she cried; "I do so want a little help." "Why," said my wife, pulling up her veil, "it is Kate Whitney.
Then he did the same with the wood-work with which the chamber was panelled.
I give you my word that I would have spoken out if it went against him at the Assizes." "I am glad to hear you say so," said Holmes gravely.
Would she not have made an admirable queen?
"Inspector Bradstreet, sir." "Ah, Bradstreet, how are you?" A tall, stout official had come down the stone-flagged passage, in a peaked cap and frogged jacket.
"'Precisely.' He opened the case, and there, imbedded in soft, flesh-coloured velvet, lay the magnificent piece of jewellery which he had named.
You did not see anyone else in the room?" "No, but this horrible man confessed to having been there, and the Lascar was at the foot of the stairs." "Quite so.
"'In the case of another,' said he, 'the objection might be fatal, but we must stretch a point in favour of a man with such a head of hair as yours.
Toller, who might give the alarm.
Toller," said Holmes, "for you have certainly cleared up everything which puzzled us.
I would send you a wire.
He did tell me the address.
My own complete happiness, and the home-centred interests which rise up around the man who first finds himself master of his own establishment, were sufficient to absorb all my attention, while Holmes, who loathed every form of society with his whole Bohemian soul, remained in our lodgings in Baker Street, buried among his old books, and alternating from week to week between cocaine and ambition, the drowsiness of the drug, and the fierce energy of his own keen nature.
Pray continue your most interesting statement." "Away we went then, and we drove for at least an hour.
'You have destroyed it!
"The Coroner: That is for the court to decide.
We found the brass box there, although its contents had been destroyed.
St.
I hardened my heart, and took the smoke-rocket from under my ulster.
If you have not, you are not fitted for the rearing of a child who may some day play a considerable part in the history of the country.
"What can it mean, this relentless persecution?" "The papers which Openshaw carried are obviously of vital importance to the person or persons in the sailing-ship.
Of these the latter may have afforded a finer field for an acute and original observer, but the other was so strange in its inception and so dramatic in its details that it may be the more worthy of being placed upon record, even if it gave my friend fewer openings for those deductive methods of reasoning by which he achieved such remarkable results.
He followed me to my room, however, that night with a very grave face.
Ha!
She is my right hand.
Your Majesty, as I understand, became entangled with this young person, wrote her some compromising letters, and is now desirous of getting those letters back." "Precisely so.
He is a professional beggar, though in order to avoid the police regulations he pretends to a small trade in wax vestas.
Imagine, then, my thrill of terror when last night, as I lay awake, thinking over her terrible fate, I suddenly heard in the silence of the night the low whistle which had been the herald of her own death.
At nine o'clock Lestrade called for us with the carriage, and we set off for Hatherley Farm and the Boscombe Pool.
"The Coroner: What do you mean?
I know nothing further of the matter.' "The Coroner: Did your father make any statement to you before he died?
Holmes rushed at the bell-pull, tore back a small sliding shutter, and, plunging in his hand, pulled out a photograph and a letter.
This account of you we have from all quarters received.
Simon," announced our page-boy, throwing open the door.
Wait in patience.
Once we diverted her luggage when she travelled.
Colonel!
"There is one other thing you owe, Mr.
And you have no doubt that it is your husband's hand, madam?" "None.
Then there was a loud and authoritative tap.
It is Wednesday.
Light a cigar and let me expound." "Pray do so." "Well, now, in considering this case there are two points about young McCarthy's narrative which struck us both instantly, although they impressed me in his favour and you against him.
She had engaged a sitting-room, and our lunch awaited us upon the table.
No, it was more likely to be an attempt to explain how he met his fate.
"This, I take it, belongs to the room in which you used to sleep, the centre one to your sister's, and the one next to the main building to Dr.
For seven hours I plied my trade, and when I returned home in the evening I found to my surprise that I had received no less than 26s.
Now," he said as he turned hungrily on the simple fare that our landlady had provided, "I must discuss it while I eat, for I have not much time.
It was not until close upon six o'clock that I found myself free and was able to spring into a hansom and drive to Baker Street, half afraid that I might be too late to assist at the dénouement of the little mystery.
He was removed, loudly protesting, to the police-station, while the inspector remained upon the premises in the hope that the ebbing tide might afford some fresh clue.
"Who is on duty?" asked Holmes.
"He certainly needs a wash," remarked Holmes.
"'No excuse will avail,' said Mr.
She states that while she was there she saw, at the border of the wood and close by the lake, Mr.
"These are very deep waters," said he; "pray go on with your narrative." "Two years have passed since then, and my life has been until lately lonelier than ever.
Sherlock Holmes was well known to the force, and the two constables at the door saluted him.
At first it seemed to be impossible, but I soon devised a means.
Some friend of yours, perhaps?" "Except yourself I have none," he answered.
"The name of the maker, no doubt; or his monogram, rather." "Not at all.
It is not so impossible, however, that a man should possess all knowledge which is likely to be useful to him in his work, and this I have endeavoured in my case to do.
A shock of orange hair, a pale face disfigured by a horrible scar, which, by its contraction, has turned up the outer edge of his upper lip, a bulldog chin, and a pair of very penetrating dark eyes, which present a singular contrast to the colour of his hair, all mark him out from amid the common crowd of mendicants and so, too, does his wit, for he is ever ready with a reply to any piece of chaff which may be thrown at him by the passers-by.
There were four of them in a row, three of which were simply dirty, while the fourth was shuttered up.
Simon to honour my head by putting it on a level with his own," said Sherlock Holmes, laughing.
"May I see your father if I call to-morrow?" "I am afraid the doctor won't allow it." "The doctor?" "Yes, have you not heard?
Never trust to general impressions, my boy, but concentrate yourself upon details.
"BALLARAT." "Quite so.
I knew the firm for which this man worked.
I determined to wait until I got back to town before telling my story to the police.
Ha!
Was it possible that we could bring him back to her?
"'Oh, any old key will fit that bureau.
Simon," said Holmes, rising and bowing.
By an examination of the ground I gained the trifling details which I gave to that imbecile Lestrade, as to the personality of the criminal." "But how did you gain them?" "You know my method.
"An accident, I presume?" "By no means." "What!
Do you see?' He was still smiling in the most amiable manner.
It was dated from Montague Place upon the preceding evening, and ran thus: Dear Mr.
The pipe was still between his lips, the smoke still curled upward, and the room was full of a dense tobacco haze, but nothing remained of the heap of shag which I had seen upon the previous night.
Is it not possible that his wife is a lunatic, that he desires to keep the matter quiet for fear she should be taken to an asylum, and that he humours her fancies in every way in order to prevent an outbreak?" "That is a possible solution--in fact, as matters stand, it is the most probable one.
You must put this piece of paper which you have shown us into the brass box which you have described.
Windibank," Holmes continued.
Holmes, especially Thursday and Friday evening, which is just before pay-day; so it would suit me very well to earn a little in the mornings.
It is a hobby of mine to have an exact knowledge of London.
The devil knows best what he said, but at least she became his tool and was in the habit of seeing him nearly every evening." "I cannot, and I will not, believe it!" cried the banker with an ashen face.
I sat down beside the fire, however, with the intention of awaiting him, however long he might be.
"This is the envelope," he continued.
He is a Mr.
May I ask whether you were seated at the breakfast-table so that you could see out of the window?" "We could see the other side of the road and the Park." "Quite so.
I heard no more.
In the second one which I visited in Northumberland Avenue, I learned by an inspection of the book that Francis H.
So tall was he that his hat actually brushed the cross bar of the doorway, and his breadth seemed to span it across from side to side.
But I think I have the key of the affair now." "And where is it?" I asked, smiling.
"There are a few of us who frequent the Alpha Inn, near the Museum--we are to be found in the Museum itself during the day, you understand.
Still, it might be worth while to call Holmes' attention to it.
Etherege, whose husband you found so easy when the police and everyone had given him up for dead.
Perhaps it was thoughtless of me to say so.
Sherlock Holmes, before you go to the official police." "Oh, I have heard of that fellow," answered my visitor, "and I should be very glad if he would take the matter up, though of course I must use the official police as well.
Give me your hand!
"I fancy that this grey house on the right must be the lodge.
"It was very sweet of you to come.
John Clay, and I agree with you that he is at the head of his profession.
There was an old clock ticking loudly somewhere in the passage, but otherwise everything was deadly still.
A broad wheal from an old scar ran right across it from eye to chin, and by its contraction had turned up one side of the upper lip, so that three teeth were exposed in a perpetual snarl.
Finally he returned to the pawnbroker's, and, having thumped vigorously upon the pavement with his stick two or three times, he went up to the door and knocked.
His grandfather was a royal duke, and he himself has been to Eton and Oxford.
I am sorry to give you such a two-edged thing, but I can't say what turn things are going to take.
I never hear of such a case as this that I do not think of Baxter's words, and say, 'There, but for the grace of God, goes Sherlock Holmes.'" James McCarthy was acquitted at the Assizes on the strength of a number of objections which had been drawn out by Holmes and submitted to the defending counsel.
"Is Briony Lodge, Serpentine Avenue, St.
It is my strong impression that I heard it, and yet, among the crash of the gale and the creaking of an old house, I may possibly have been deceived." "Was your sister dressed?" "No, she was in her night-dress.
Rucastle to find her eyes fixed upon me with a most searching gaze.
Besides, remember that she had resolved to use it within a few days.
Besides, we must be prompt, for this marriage may mean a complete change in her life and habits.
When he came to the highroad at the other end, I found that the pavement had been cleared, so there was an end to that clue.
Evidently there was a skylight which let in light from above.
Clair went into town rather earlier than usual, remarking before he started that he had two important commissions to perform, and that he would bring his little boy home a box of bricks.
If his purpose were innocent, why did he not say so?" "Precisely.
"What do you read?" "ARAT," I read.
"'Next Monday I have a large sum due to me, and I shall then most certainly repay what you advance, with whatever interest you think it right to charge.
"And my son?
Indeed, apart from the nature of the investigation which my friend had on hand, there was something in his masterly grasp of a situation, and his keen, incisive reasoning, which made it a pleasure to me to study his system of work, and to follow the quick, subtle methods by which he disentangled the most inextricable mysteries.
We have a housekeeper now, but she is old and foolish, and I could easily get her out of the way." "Excellent.
This child's disposition is abnormally cruel, merely for cruelty's sake, and whether he derives this from his smiling father, as I should suspect, or from his mother, it bodes evil for the poor girl who is in their power." "I am sure that you are right, Mr.
"The man who wrote it was presumably well to do," I remarked, endeavouring to imitate my companion's processes.
It would of course instantly strike him that he must get rid of the tell-tale garments.
It is not too much to say that once or twice, as in that business of the Sholto murder and the Agra treasure, he has been more nearly correct than the official force." "Oh, if you say so, Mr.
I don't know that your assistant is not as remarkable as your advertisement." "Oh, he has his faults, too," said Mr.
But I'm always ready to back my opinion on a matter of fowls, and I have a fiver on it that the bird I ate is country bred." "Well, then, you've lost your fiver, for it's town bred," snapped the salesman.
What a queen she would have made!" He relapsed into a moody silence, which was not broken until we drew up in Serpentine Avenue.
It proved to be that of a young gentleman whose name, as it appears from an envelope which was found in his pocket, was John Openshaw, and whose residence is near Horsham.
"Missing," it said, "on the morning of the fourteenth, a gentleman named Hosmer Angel.
He had even smoked there.
You are yourself aware that you will soon have to answer for your deed at a higher court than the Assizes.
Holmes gazed long and earnestly at it.
Suddenly, however, he started, tapped me on the shoulder, and pointed over the meadows.
"As to the letters," he continued, glancing over them, "they are very commonplace.
Three of our boys were killed, however, before we got the swag.
Eight shillings for a bed and eightpence for a glass of sherry pointed to one of the most expensive hotels.
I then inquired as to the vessels which lay at present in the port of London." "Yes?" "The Lone Star had arrived here last week.
She impressed me neither favourably nor the reverse.
The small boy brought round a small thin volume and a great greasy-backed one, laying them out together beneath the hanging lamp.
D'you see?
Wilson.
It is absolutely unique, and its value can only be conjectured, but the reward offered of £1000 is certainly not within a twentieth part of the market price." "A thousand pounds!
"I was a little startled at the nature of the child's amusement, but the father's laughter made me think that perhaps he was joking.
It is true that you have missed everything of importance, but you have hit upon the method, and you have a quick eye for colour.
When a woman has been seriously wronged by a man she no longer oscillates, and the usual symptom is a broken bell wire.
Have you good authority for what you say?" "The best possible." Lord St.
It was the toy which he had promised to bring home.
Not even your skill can inform me where she is now." "I think that we may safely say," returned Holmes, "that she is wherever Sir George Burnwell is.
But you see, sir, them's not our geese." "Indeed!
I thought there might be some weapon or other trace.
Kindly turn round and wave him away like that.' "I did as I was told, and at the same instant Mrs.
Was the remainder of the coronet at all injured?" "Yes, it was twisted." "Do you not think, then, that he might have been trying to straighten it?" "God bless you!
Holmes shot the slide across the front of his lantern and left us in pitch darkness--such an absolute darkness as I have never before experienced.
But the writing?" "What else can be indicated by that right cuff so very shiny for five inches, and the left one with the smooth patch near the elbow where you rest it upon the desk?" "Well, but China?" "The fish that you have tattooed immediately above your right wrist could only have been done in China.
I rapidly threw on my clothes and was ready in a few minutes to accompany my friend down to the sitting-room.
He was still, as ever, deeply attracted by the study of crime, and occupied his immense faculties and extraordinary powers of observation in following out those clues, and clearing up those mysteries which had been abandoned as hopeless by the official police.
Toller in the cellar," said she.
She spoke a few words in a foreign tongue in a tone as though asking a question, and when my companion answered in a gruff monosyllable she gave such a start that the lamp nearly fell from her hand.
There is so keen a sympathy between us that I should know if evil came upon him.
It was useless, however.
One sorrow comes close upon the heels of another.
You give me hopes?" "My opinion is in no way altered." "Then, for God's sake, what was this dark business which was acted in my house last night?" "If you can call upon me at my Baker Street rooms to-morrow morning between nine and ten I shall be happy to do what I can to make it clearer.
Our footfalls rang out crisply and loudly as we swung through the doctors' quarter, Wimpole Street, Harley Street, and so through Wigmore Street into Oxford Street.
You are doing what you can for him and for me.
It was a curious way of managing it, but, really, it would be difficult to suggest a better.
There was not a bird to be seen there.
The walls were of wood, but the floor consisted of a large iron trough, and when I came to examine it I could see a crust of metallic deposit all over it.
His boots, too, might be told from their traces." "Yes, they were peculiar boots." "But his lameness?" "The impression of his right foot was always less distinct than his left.
"You'll have to go out." I groaned, for I was newly come back from a weary day.
I had it from the stevedore who has been loading their cargo.
"You have no chance at all." "So I see," the other answered with the utmost coolness.
It was the band!
We could write in the meantime, and he used to write every day.
"Oh, yes, I am not joking," he continued, seeing my look of incredulity.
A fortnight went by, during which I frequently found my thoughts turning in her direction and wondering what strange side-alley of human experience this lonely woman had strayed into.
This note I had this morning marks my zero-point, I fancy.
With an apology for my intrusion, I was about to withdraw when Holmes pulled me abruptly into the room and closed the door behind me.
And your address had been given me.
Is it possible that even now, when I give you these results, you are unable to see how they are attained?" "I have no doubt that I am very stupid, but I must confess that I am unable to follow you.
It's worth quite a little fortune to any man who gets it, and I understand that there are more vacancies than there are men, so that the trustees are at their wits' end what to do with the money.
Then he turned the handle and entered, I at his heels, with the cocked pistol in my hand.
Becher's." "Tell me," broke in the engineer, "is Dr.
McCarthy pass he had seen his son, Mr.
We used always to get what we wanted for ourselves." "Indeed, it seemed unnecessary to put so nice a bell-pull there.
Godfrey Norton, of the Inner Temple.
But you do not yourself look upon this as likely?" "I do not think Flora would hurt a fly." "Still, jealousy is a strange transformer of characters.
I am glad to have a friend with whom I can discuss my results.
Between your brandy and your bandage, I feel a new man.
Ah, miss, it is a pity you didn't let me know what you were planning, for I would have told you that your pains were wasted." "Ha!" said Holmes, looking keenly at her.
I have myself some small business matters to attend to.
The drawn blinds and the smokeless chimneys, however, gave it a stricken look, as though the weight of this horror still lay heavy upon it.
What a week she must have spent!" "The police have watched this Lascar," said Inspector Bradstreet, "and I can quite understand that he might find it difficult to post a letter unobserved.
I sent the house-maid for the police and put the investigation into their hands at once.
That is easily done.
"It is an old maxim of mine that when you have excluded the impossible, whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth.
It could not have been a better fit if I had been measured for it.
A moment later we were out on the dark road, a chill wind blowing in our faces, and one yellow light twinkling in front of us through the gloom to guide us on our sombre errand.
A double carriage-sweep, with a snow-clad lawn, stretched down in front to two large iron gates which closed the entrance.
As you may observe, Mr.
this, I suppose, is he.
There's twenty-six of them, which makes one for you, and one for us, and two dozen for the market.' "'Thank you, Maggie,' says I; 'but if it is all the same to you, I'd rather have that one I was handling just now.' "'The other is a good three pound heavier,' said she, 'and we fattened it expressly for you.' "'Never mind.
Rucastle, showing me a slit between two planks.
James Windibank running at the top of his speed down the road.
And then, as a second thought, why should she come at all?
And into her sitting-room, which was the very room which I suspected.
It was worth an effort to preserve it.
It seems absurdly simple, and yet, somehow I can get nothing to go upon.
I may have to go down to Horsham, after all." "You will not go there first?" "No, I shall commence with the City.
"You hear!
Are you a married man, Mr.
Sometimes I think that I am myself.
"It may be so, or it may not, Mr.
There is, of course, the other woman, the drink, the push, the blow, the bruise, the sympathetic sister or landlady.
In his singular character the dual nature alternately asserted itself, and his extreme exactness and astuteness represented, as I have often thought, the reaction against the poetic and contemplative mood which occasionally predominated in him.
A month ago, however, a dear friend, whom I have known for many years, has done me the honour to ask my hand in marriage.
Watson, I fear that you will find it very slow, but I shall only be away a couple of hours." I walked down to the station with them, and then wandered through the streets of the little town, finally returning to the hotel, where I lay upon the sofa and tried to interest myself in a yellow-backed novel.
He put less weight upon it.
"Yes, it is correct, as far as it goes." "But it needs a great deal of supplementing before anyone could offer an opinion.
"My geese!" The man seemed surprised.
"That is back through the house into Saxe-Coburg Square.
"I think of writing another little monograph some of these days on the typewriter and its relation to crime.
The summons was a brief and urgent one.
As we rolled into Eyford Station we saw a gigantic column of smoke which streamed up from behind a small clump of trees in the neighbourhood and hung like an immense ostrich feather over the landscape.
He never did wish us to go anywhere.
Godfrey Norton, as our client is to its coming to the eyes of his princess.
The bedroom window was a broad one and opened from below.
That is obvious.
Now, look at that third name.
It is not a common experience among employers in this age.
he!
It was a delicate part which I had to play then, for I saw that a prosecution must be avoided to avert scandal, and I knew that so astute a villain would see that our hands were tied in the matter.
He was wild, wayward, and, to speak the truth, I could not trust him in the handling of large sums of money.
I have lost my thumb and I have lost a fifty-guinea fee, and what have I gained?" "Experience," said Holmes, laughing.
It drove me mad to think that I and all that I held most dear should be in the power of such a man as this.
tiptoes!
"I have had diabetes for years.
In her right hand was found the charred stump of a match, and in her left a match-box." "Showing that she had struck a light and looked about her when the alarm took place.
Then, with a gesture of desperation, he tore the mask from his face and hurled it upon the ground.
Half a guinea if you do it in twenty minutes!' "Away they went, and I was just wondering whether I should not do well to follow them when up the lane came a neat little landau, the coachman with his coat only half-buttoned, and his tie under his ear, while all the tags of his harness were sticking out of the buckles.
Now where did you get them from?" To my surprise the question provoked a burst of anger from the salesman.
you have seen inside, then?" "Only once, some years ago.
Holmes, and, indeed, he has little to do with my story." "I am glad of all details," remarked my friend, "whether they seem to you to be relevant or not." "I shall try not to miss anything of importance.
Do you think that you could perform one more feat?
See http://sherlock-holm.es for an electronic form of this text and additional information about it.
There is a comfortable sofa.
Merryweather perched himself upon a crate, with a very injured expression upon his face, while Holmes fell upon his knees upon the floor and, with the lantern and a magnifying lens, began to examine minutely the cracks between the stones.
All over the countryside, away to the rolling hills around Aldershot, the little red and grey roofs of the farm-steadings peeped out from amid the light green of the new foliage.
One was the fact that his father should, according to his account, cry 'Cooee!' before seeing him.
"You must act, man, or you are lost.
"Yesterday, however, just as I was thinking of leaving the office, my clerk entered to say there was a gentleman waiting who wished to see me upon business.
There was a double stream upon the stair, some going up in hope, and some coming back dejected; but we wedged in as well as we could and soon found ourselves in the office." "Your experience has been a most entertaining one," remarked Holmes as his client paused and refreshed his memory with a huge pinch of snuff.
It may, however, have been written on Monday and only posted to-day." "That is possible." "If so, much may have happened between." "Oh, you must not discourage me, Mr.
Holmes.
Hudson has been knocked up, she retorted upon me, and I on you." "What is it, then--a fire?" "No; a client.
"I trust that I am not intruding.
I rushed towards it and pulled at the handle, but it was quite secure, and did not give in the least to my kicks and shoves.
I leave it with you, however, with every confidence, and I shall call for it in person on Monday morning.' "Seeing that my client was anxious to leave, I said no more but, calling for my cashier, I ordered him to pay over fifty £1000 notes.
The matter is a perfectly trivial one"--he jerked his thumb in the direction of the old hat--"but there are points in connection with it which are not entirely devoid of interest and even of instruction." I seated myself in his armchair and warmed my hands before his crackling fire, for a sharp frost had set in, and the windows were thick with the ice crystals.
Clair is now thirty-seven years of age, is a man of temperate habits, a good husband, a very affectionate father, and a man who is popular with all who know him.
Running up, I blew its brains out, and it fell over with its keen white teeth still meeting in the great creases of his neck.
His hand closed like a vice upon my wrist in his agitation.
I hope that I have made myself clear?" "I am to remain neutral, to get near the window, to watch you, and at the signal to throw in this object, then to raise the cry of fire, and to wait you at the corner of the street." "Precisely." "Then you may entirely rely on me." "That is excellent.
"We have at least an hour before us," he remarked, "for they can hardly take any steps until the good pawnbroker is safely in bed.
The husband was a teetotaler, there was no other woman, and the conduct complained of was that he had drifted into the habit of winding up every meal by taking out his false teeth and hurling them at his wife, which, you will allow, is not an action likely to occur to the imagination of the average story-teller.
Holmes, you know the people who live under my roof, and I shall continue with my miserable story.
"You dragged them from the Serpentine?" "No.
"What will the Duke say," he murmured, "when he hears that one of the family has been subjected to such humiliation?" "It is the purest accident.
"Read it aloud." The note was undated, and without either signature or address.
All well.
She stood with her figure outlined against the flood of light, one hand upon the door, one half-raised in her eagerness, her body slightly bent, her head and face protruded, with eager eyes and parted lips, a standing question.
"Oh, that!
A jagged stone was lying among the moss, and this also he carefully examined and retained.
James never did it.
Holmes.
That was last Friday, Mr.
There only remains Mrs.
But we have to be careful, for we have twice been deceived by wigs and once by paint.
He had returned with the prize, but had left a fragment in the grasp of his opponent.
It could not be delirium.
Shortly after our return to England my mother died--she was killed eight years ago in a railway accident near Crewe.
And yet it would be the blackest treachery to Holmes to draw back now from the part which he had intrusted to me.
In front of him he saw, in the gaslight, a tallish man, walking with a slight stagger, and carrying a white goose slung over his shoulder.
Sherlock Holmes ran her over with one of his quick, all-comprehensive glances.
Holmes drew one of the chairs into a corner and sat silent, while his eyes travelled round and round and up and down, taking in every detail of the apartment.
Simon, second son of the Duke of Balmoral.' Hum!
I thought of the salt that I have been working upon.
Watson.
'I could not bear the disgrace.
However, in the morning I determined to have a look at it anyhow, so I bought a penny bottle of ink, and with a quill-pen, and seven sheets of foolscap paper, I started off for Pope's Court.
Then there was the peculiar dying reference to a rat.
"Well, have you solved it?" I asked as I entered.
It is not necessary that I should prolong a narrative which has already run to too great a length by telling how we broke the sad news to the terrified girl, how we conveyed her by the morning train to the care of her good aunt at Harrow, of how the slow process of official inquiry came to the conclusion that the doctor met his fate while indiscreetly playing with a dangerous pet.
That he should come to me for help, and that I should send him away to his death--!" He sprang from his chair and paced about the room in uncontrollable agitation, with a flush upon his sallow cheeks and a nervous clasping and unclasping of his long thin hands.
I shall stand behind this crate, and do you conceal yourselves behind those.
We shall soon see how he managed it." He swung himself up onto the roof.
I should become the laughing-stock of Scotland Yard." "All right," said Holmes quietly.
How came the stone into the goose, and how came the goose into the open market?
"It is obvious.
And there is a little reward, I fancy.
There's never very much to do of a morning." "That will do, Mr.
"Yes.
Could I not snap the bond?
My companion noiselessly closed the shutters, moved the lamp onto the table, and cast his eyes round the room.
He will find it as sure a precursor of his fate as Openshaw did before him." "And who is this Captain Calhoun?" "The leader of the gang.
On the fourth day after the new year I heard my father give a sharp cry of surprise as we sat together at the breakfast-table.
Sherlock Holmes sat up with a whistle.
I have given you all the facts.
"There is some building going on there," said Holmes; "that is where we are going." "There's the village," said the driver, pointing to a cluster of roofs some distance to the left; "but if you want to get to the house, you'll find it shorter to get over this stile, and so by the foot-path over the fields.
She was so frightened by their violence that she ran away and told her mother when she reached home that she had left the two McCarthys quarrelling near Boscombe Pool, and that she was afraid that they were going to fight.
There are not many in London which charge at that rate.
I left the bird, rushed back to my sister's, and hurried into the back yard.
Do come!
Holder, that you are nearing the end of your troubles." "Ha!
He was a middle-sized man, coarsely clad as became his calling, with a coloured shirt protruding through the rent in his tattered coat.
"I thought as much," said he.
Then perhaps I had better postpone my analysis of the acetones, as we may need to be at our best in the morning." By eleven o'clock the next day we were well upon our way to the old English capital.
There is no vehicle save a dog-cart which throws up mud in that way, and then only when you sit on the left-hand side of the driver." "Whatever your reasons may be, you are perfectly correct," said she.
I found Sherlock Holmes alone, however, half asleep, with his long, thin form curled up in the recesses of his armchair.
Did you fasten all the windows?" "Yes." "Were they all fastened this morning?" "Yes." "You have a maid who has a sweetheart?
McCarthy had one son, a lad of eighteen, and Turner had an only daughter of the same age, but neither of them had wives living.
"Yes," he continued, glancing out of the window.
You have not observed.
There are windows in it, of course?" "Yes, but very small ones.
"At Reading I had to change not only my carriage but my station.
Simon glanced over it.
So accustomed was I to his invariable success that the very possibility of his failing had ceased to enter into my head.
Now, for such a case as the one which has been submitted to us to-night, we need certainly to muster all our resources.
"And in this way he managed that your good man should have no want of drink, and that a ladder should be ready at the moment when your master had gone out." "You have it, sir, just as it happened." "I am sure we owe you an apology, Mrs.
"'Oh, yes,' said he, turning to me, 'we are very much obliged to you, Miss Hunter, for falling in with our whims so far as to cut your hair.
He was searching his pockets for the key when someone passing said: "Good-night, Mister Sherlock Holmes." There were several people on the pavement at the time, but the greeting appeared to come from a slim youth in an ulster who had hurried by.
He has little time, for he has heard the scuffle downstairs when the wife tried to force her way up, and perhaps he has already heard from his Lascar confederate that the police are hurrying up the street.
"'At least,' said he, 'you will not have me arrested at once.
There is no sign of any other weapon." "And the murderer?" "Is a tall man, left-handed, limps with the right leg, wears thick-soled shooting-boots and a grey cloak, smokes Indian cigars, uses a cigar-holder, and carries a blunt pen-knife in his pocket.
It is a bijou villa, with a garden at the back, but built out in front right up to the road, two stories.
They each led into an empty room, dusty and cheerless, with two windows in the one and one in the other, so thick with dirt that the evening light glimmered dimly through them.
He has been of most vital use to me in several of my cases, and a lucky chance has made it possible for me to bring him out and associate him with this investigation." "I am delighted to see you," said she, pressing my hand warmly.
"Beyond the obvious facts that he has at some time done manual labour, that he takes snuff, that he is a Freemason, that he has been in China, and that he has done a considerable amount of writing lately, I can deduce nothing else." Mr.
Hudson came.
She is even more affected than I." "You have neither of you any doubt as to your son's guilt?" "How can we have when I saw him with my own eyes with the coronet in his hands." "I hardly consider that a conclusive proof.
Now, how can that be unless it were by a left-handed man?
That will just show you how fond he was of me, Mr.
"Pray take the basket-chair.
Just before nine o'clock Sherlock Holmes stepped briskly into the room.
Ah, Watson, you have just come at the right time.
It was only a line asking me to join him when he made the sign to me to do so.
Give him an arm back into his chair, Watson.
It is thought that Flora decoyed my wife out and laid some terrible trap for her." "Well, it is a possible supposition." "You think so, too?" "I did not say a probable one.
Sir George Burnwell tried to get away, but Arthur caught him, and there was a struggle between them, your lad tugging at one side of the coronet, and his opponent at the other.
It is past ten, however, and quite time that we started.
It was from her that I had your address.
What could that something be?
Rather than I should marry another woman, there are no lengths to which she would not go--none." "You are sure that she has not sent it yet?" "I am sure." "And why?" "Because she has said that she would send it on the day when the betrothal was publicly proclaimed.
At dusk we saw Dr.
---------- This text is provided to you "as-is" without any warranty.
Nothing less would bring a man out on such a day and at such an hour.
It was not in front.
"Then I will." Holmes suddenly bent his strength upon it, but without result.
I could not dream of sacrificing it in this offhand fashion.
"I want to test a little theory of mine," said he, pulling on his boots.
Lestrade and I walked behind him, the detective indifferent and contemptuous, while I watched my friend with the interest which sprang from the conviction that every one of his actions was directed towards a definite end.
Let us now explore the parts which lie behind it." The road in which we found ourselves as we turned round the corner from the retired Saxe-Coburg Square presented as great a contrast to it as the front of a picture does to the back.
Yes, 17 King Edward Street, near St.
But a human body is a different matter.
He took a large villa, laid out the grounds very nicely, and lived generally in good style.
The central portion was in little better repair, but the right-hand block was comparatively modern, and the blinds in the windows, with the blue smoke curling up from the chimneys, showed that this was where the family resided.
But I am inclined to think neither.
It brings me twopence a sheet, and I can often do from fifteen to twenty sheets in a day." "You have made your position very clear to me," said Holmes.
Henry Baker, who was a member of your goose club." "Ah!
No wind, and not a cloud in the sky.
Frank wouldn't throw up his hand, though; so he followed me there, and he saw me without pa knowing anything about it.
My mind was soon made up.
He said that he had never heard of any such body.
Old Turner lived for seven months after our interview, but he is now dead; and there is every prospect that the son and daughter may come to live happily together in ignorance of the black cloud which rests upon their past.
He would rather walk with me in the evening than in the daylight, for he said that he hated to be conspicuous.
"I had hoped," suggested Holmes, "that you would have joined us in a friendly supper." "I think that there you ask a little too much," responded his Lordship.
So determined was their denial that the inspector was staggered, and had almost come to believe that Mrs.
To me, who knew his every mood and habit, his attitude and manner told their own story.
I don't know quite what to do, and I should value your advice.
You will find an extra tumbler upon the sideboard, and there are cigars in the box." The official detective was attired in a pea-jacket and cravat, which gave him a decidedly nautical appearance, and he carried a black canvas bag in his hand.
I think that we may judge Lord St.
I turned the key gently in the lock, opened the door, and slipped through.
"Perhaps I have." "Then, for pity's sake, tell me what was the cause of my sister's death." "I should prefer to have clearer proofs before I speak." "You can at least tell me whether my own thought is correct, and if she died from some sudden fright." "No, I do not think so.
The manor-house is, as I have already said, very old, and only one wing is now inhabited.
"'Whatever were you doing with that bird, Jem?' says she.
But how on earth do you deduce that the gas is not laid on in his house?" "One tallow stain, or even two, might come by chance; but when I see no less than five, I think that there can be little doubt that the individual must be brought into frequent contact with burning tallow--walks upstairs at night probably with his hat in one hand and a guttering candle in the other.
"What can it mean?" I gasped.
It is founded upon the observation of trifles." "His height I know that you might roughly judge from the length of his stride.
The writing is undoubtedly my uncle's." Holmes moved the lamp, and we both bent over the sheet of paper, which showed by its ragged edge that it had indeed been torn from a book.
"The paper was made in Bohemia," I said.
We got to the church first, and when the four-wheeler drove up we waited for him to step out, but he never did, and when the cabman got down from the box and looked there was no one there!
I cannot allow that there is any humiliation." "Ah, you look on these things from another standpoint." "I fail to see that anyone is to blame.
"I've got him here," he whispered, jerking his thumb over his shoulder; "he's all right." "What is it, then?" I asked, for his manner suggested that it was some strange creature which he had caged up in my room.
He had turned his back so that none could see him but I.
Let me know your train.
And no later than this morning.
Windibank, turning white to his lips and glancing about him like a rat in a trap.
I took a step forward.
Does not that strike you?" "I cannot as yet see any connection." "Did you observe anything very peculiar about that bed?" "No." "It was clamped to the floor.
"I have spent the whole day," said he, "over Lloyd's registers and files of the old papers, following the future career of every vessel which touched at Pondicherry in January and February in '83.
"Let you have five hundred to-morrow morning." "That's no good." "Well, there are some on the stall with the gas-flare." "Ah, but I was recommended to you." "Who by?" "The landlord of the Alpha." "Oh, yes; I sent him a couple of dozen." "Fine birds they were, too.
To Holmes, as I could see by his eager face and peering eyes, very many other things were to be read upon the trampled grass.
Each daughter can claim an income of £250, in case of marriage.
Within are the very words which were upon my father's last message: 'K.
It was a quarter-past nine when I started from home and made my way across the Park, and so through Oxford Street to Baker Street.
It is cabinet size.
Henry Baker, I believe," said he, rising from his armchair and greeting his visitor with the easy air of geniality which he could so readily assume.
So Frank took my wedding-clothes and things and made a bundle of them, so that I should not be traced, and dropped them away somewhere where no one could find them.
When a doctor does go wrong he is the first of criminals.
Pray tell me in what way I can reward you.
He asked for Alice.
Rucastle, both Toller and his wife find something to do in these deserted rooms, and I once saw him carrying a large black linen bag with him through the door.
I don't know." "Quite so!
The most serious point in the case is the disposition of the child." "What on earth has that to do with it?" I ejaculated.
Holmes chuckled and wriggled in his chair, as was his habit when in high spirits.
"but I have felt another man since the doctor bandaged me, and I think that your breakfast has completed the cure.
Her gloves were greyish and were worn through at the right forefinger.
Its outrages were usually preceded by a warning sent to the marked man in some fantastic but generally recognised shape--a sprig of oak-leaves in some parts, melon seeds or orange pips in others.
If it had been written straight off, and then blotted, none would be of a deep black shade.
Sir George Burnwell has been several times lately.
At the foot of the stairs, however, she met this Lascar scoundrel of whom I have spoken, who thrust her back and, aided by a Dane, who acts as assistant there, pushed her out into the street.
You may go to any expense which you think necessary.
As I glanced at the box I noticed, with a start, that upon the lid was printed the treble K which I had read in the morning upon the envelope.
It is, as he said, beautifully situated, but it is not beautiful in itself, for it is a large square block of a house, whitewashed, but all stained and streaked with damp and bad weather.
Mr.
"Here is a very fashionable epistle," I remarked as he entered.
Whose, then?" "Well, I got the two dozen from a salesman in Covent Garden." "Indeed?
Mr.
I went to the altar with him with the intention to make him just as good a wife as it was in me to be.
This he unpacked with the help of a youth whom he had brought with him, and presently, to my very great astonishment, a quite epicurean little cold supper began to be laid out upon our humble lodging-house mahogany.
This business has had a very bad effect upon him.
"You have given me fresh life and hope.
She is swift in making up her mind and fearless in carrying out her resolutions.
I am convinced that the inspector has formed the opinion that the letters are all practical jokes, and that the deaths of my relations were really accidents, as the jury stated, and were not to be connected with the warnings." Holmes shook his clenched hands in the air.
Simon bitterly.
"Yes, there were several little changes carried out about that time." "They seem to have been of a most interesting character--dummy bell-ropes, and ventilators which do not ventilate.
"'There are none missing.
But I presume that this other goose upon the sideboard, which is about the same weight and perfectly fresh, will answer your purpose equally well?" "Oh, certainly, certainly," answered Mr.
I had no idea that he was in front of me.
But he has a gentleman staying with him, a patient, as I understand, who is a foreigner, and he looks as if a little good Berkshire beef would do him no harm." The station-master had not finished his speech before we were all hastening in the direction of the fire.
"It has long been an axiom of mine that the little things are infinitely the most important.
My mistress told me that you were likely to call.
Rucastle expressed a delight at the look of it, which seemed quite exaggerated in its vehemence.
She is waiting now in the sitting-room.
Why?
Wilson's assistant counts for a good deal in this mystery of the Red-headed League.
I fainted when it was done, and I think that I must have been senseless for a long time.
"They are never sold upon hats.
They come, they go, they come again--of course that was for the cloak.
"Your red-headed idea was very new and effective." "You'll see your pal again presently," said Jones.
As I passed his pew on the way out I dropped my bouquet over to him, and he slipped the note into my hand when he returned me the flowers.
There's money in this case, Watson, if there is nothing else." "I think that I had better go, Holmes." "Not a bit, Doctor.
In the dim light of the lamp I saw him sitting there, an old briar pipe between his lips, his eyes fixed vacantly upon the corner of the ceiling, the blue smoke curling up from him, silent, motionless, with the light shining upon his strong-set aquiline features.
That trick of staining the fishes' scales of a delicate pink is quite peculiar to China.
My niece, Mary, has deserted me." "Deserted you?" "Yes.
A large face, seared with a thousand wrinkles, burned yellow with the sun, and marked with every evil passion, was turned from one to the other of us, while his deep-set, bile-shot eyes, and his high, thin, fleshless nose, gave him somewhat the resemblance to a fierce old bird of prey.
"I have ordered a carriage," said Lestrade as we sat over a cup of tea.
I assure you that your little problem promises to be the most interesting which has come my way for some months.
Then, after we had sat down for ten minutes or so, she rose hurriedly, muttered some words of apology, and left the room.
Rucastle suddenly remarked that it was time to commence the duties of the day, and that I might change my dress and go to little Edward in the nursery.
Clair had last been seen.
It was a poky, little, shabby-genteel place, where four lines of dingy two-storied brick houses looked out into a small railed-in enclosure, where a lawn of weedy grass and a few clumps of faded laurel-bushes made a hard fight against a smoke-laden and uncongenial atmosphere.
"Yesterday morning I was seated in my office at the bank when a card was brought in to me by one of the clerks.
Had he lost his wife?" "You can understand," said Holmes suavely, "that I extend to the affairs of my other clients the same secrecy which I promise to you in yours." "Of course!
Moulton, an American gentleman, had left only the day before, and on looking over the entries against him, I came upon the very items which I had seen in the duplicate bill.
"It is entirely a question of barometric pressure." Lestrade looked startled.
They were all horrible to me.
Have you a family?' "I answered that I had not.
It's Watson," said he.
"Well, very soon I found that I was saving considerable sums of money.
Well, there is the tower of the cathedral, and we shall soon learn all that Miss Hunter has to tell." The Black Swan is an inn of repute in the High Street, at no distance from the station, and there we found the young lady waiting for us.
Holmes, but you understand that as long as I live at home I don't wish to be a burden to them, and so they have the use of the money just while I am staying with them.
"Do you receive much company?" he asked.
Did you ever see a bed fastened like that before?" "I cannot say that I have." "The lady could not move her bed.
I leave my estate, with all its advantages and all its disadvantages, to my brother, your father, whence it will, no doubt, descend to you.
Then he struck gold, invested it, and came up by leaps and bounds." "Now, what is your own impression as to the young lady's--your wife's character?" The nobleman swung his glasses a little faster and stared down into the fire.
Violence does, in truth, recoil upon the violent, and the schemer falls into the pit which he digs for another.
You are not averse to this trip, Watson?" "By no means." "Then we shall both come.
With the connivance and assistance of his wife he disguised himself, covered those keen eyes with tinted glasses, masked the face with a moustache and a pair of bushy whiskers, sunk that clear voice into an insinuating whisper, and doubly secure on account of the girl's short sight, he appears as Mr.
I marked the spot upon my own head.
Above the woods which lined it upon the farther side we could see the red, jutting pinnacles which marked the site of the rich landowner's dwelling.
"His son, you see, had grown up, and so had my girl, and as I was known to be in weak health, it seemed a fine stroke to him that his lad should step into the whole property.
"He didn't mind me; in fact, he took a fancy to me, for at the time when he saw me first I was a youngster of twelve or so.
A loud thudding noise came from somewhere downstairs.
He was a remarkably handsome man, dark, aquiline, and moustached--evidently the man of whom I had heard.
You see that we have been as good as our word." Our client of the morning had hurried forward to meet us with a face which spoke her joy.
'How could anyone offer so pitiful a sum to a lady with such attractions and accomplishments?' "'My accomplishments, sir, may be less than you imagine,' said I.
No, sir, I think that, with your permission, I will confine my attentions to the excellent bird which I perceive upon the sideboard." Sherlock Holmes glanced sharply across at me with a slight shrug of his shoulders.
It was to be at St.
We have known each other since we were little children, and I know his faults as no one else does; but he is too tender-hearted to hurt a fly.
But I have heard, Mr.
"'What are you doing there?' he asked.
"Why does fate play such tricks with poor, helpless worms?
He had been out with his serving-man in the morning at Ross, and he had told the man that he must hurry, as he had an appointment of importance to keep at three.
The bird gave a gulp, and I felt the stone pass along its gullet and down into its crop.
There is something distinctly novel about some of the features.
I believe that it was an excuse to move me from my room." "Ah!
How dare you touch that coronet?' "The gas was half up, as I had left it, and my unhappy boy, dressed only in his shirt and trousers, was standing beside the light, holding the coronet in his hands.
Finally, I went to the landlord, who is an accountant living on the ground-floor, and I asked him if he could tell me what had become of the Red-headed League.
She listened for an instant, threw up her hands with a despairing gesture, and vanished as suddenly and as noiselessly as she had come.
What could it be?
I was keenly on my guard against him.
I was determined that the law should have its way in everything.
Kindly tell us now all about your connection with Mr.
The facts are these: about four o'clock on Christmas morning, Peterson, who, as you know, is a very honest fellow, was returning from some small jollification and was making his way homeward down Tottenham Court Road.
For half an hour I sat with straining ears.
But then, as I used to say to mother, a woman wants her own circle to begin with, and I had not got mine yet." "But how about Mr.
There was one about three miles off.
Then I thought of the whistle.
Then he lit his pipe, and leaning back in his chair he watched the blue smoke-rings as they chased each other up to the ceiling.
"'Hampshire.
He had hardly shut the door behind him when Holmes rose to put on his overcoat.
"We have retained these things for some days," said Holmes, "because we expected to see an advertisement from you giving your address.
Spies and thieves!
"Won't it ring?" "No, it is not even attached to a wire.
Lestrade, of Scotland Yard, is acting already in the matter, but he assures me that he sees no objection to your co-operation, and that he even thinks that it might be of some assistance.
Some little distance down Threadneedle Street, upon the left-hand side, there is, as you may have remarked, a small angle in the wall.
Better make it out for £4000." With a dazed face the banker made out the required check.
See here." He stepped swiftly forward, seized the poker, and bent it into a curve with his huge brown hands.
Our own door flew open, and a lady, clad in some dark-coloured stuff, with a black veil, entered the room.
My room at The Cedars is a double-bedded one." "The Cedars?" "Yes; that is Mr.
Very right!
In the road stood our horse and trap, with the half-clad stable-boy waiting at the head.
Sherlock Holmes were beaten by a woman's wit.
"Not at all.
It must have been he who wore those boots and retained the missing gems.
Twice he struck at the chamber door without any reply from within.
In his eyes she eclipses and predominates the whole of her sex.
Holmes.
"Then I'll tell our story right away," said the lady.
Here you are, Peterson, run down to the advertising agency and have this put in the evening papers." "In which, sir?" "Oh, in the Globe, Star, Pall Mall, St.
There has been no result." "No sign of it?" "Absolutely none." Holmes laughed.
Bradstreet had spread an ordnance map of the county out upon the seat and was busy with his compasses drawing a circle with Eyford for its centre.
The second is to clear up the mystery and to punish the guilty parties." "I thank you," said the young man, rising and pulling on his overcoat.
Holmes," answered my companion, looking at her with a questioning and rather startled gaze.
He was a lawyer.
His orders were to stay in the house." Again Holmes raved in the air.
That is how he did it." "But it is impossible," said Miss Hunter; "the ladder was not there when the Rucastles went away." "He has come back and done it.
"Just tell us the truth," he said.
God keep you out of the clutches of such a man as he.
"Oh, yes!
One is to a firm in the City, the other is to the young lady's stepfather, Mr.
She kept talking of what we should do in our future lives." "Indeed!
Oakshott for it." "She told me to ask you." "Well, you can ask the King of Proosia, for all I care.
What do you mean?" "Because you have just as good a chance of finding this lady in the one as in the other." Lestrade shot an angry glance at my companion.
"You must know that my grandfather had two sons--my uncle Elias and my father Joseph.
He wished us to leave him alone.
As I have reason to believe, however, that the full facts have never been revealed to the general public, and as my friend Sherlock Holmes had a considerable share in clearing the matter up, I feel that no memoir of him would be complete without some little sketch of this remarkable episode.
"Nothing." "Nothing?" "To tell the truth"--he sank his face into his thin, white hands--"I have felt helpless.
The photograph was of Irene Adler herself in evening dress, the letter was superscribed to "Sherlock Holmes, Esq.
The lamp still stood upon the floor where I had placed it when examining the trough.
I confess that I cannot recall any case within my experience which looked at the first glance so simple and yet which presented such difficulties." While Sherlock Holmes had been detailing this singular series of events, we had been whirling through the outskirts of the great town until the last straggling houses had been left behind, and we rattled along with a country hedge upon either side of us.
And what conclusions did the coroner come to?" "He investigated the case with great care, for Dr.
Private affliction also is the lot of every man; but the two coming together, and in so frightful a form, have been enough to shake my very soul.
If my hair would only change colour, here's a nice little crib all ready for me to step into.' "'Why, what is it, then?' I asked.
"The question for us now to solve is the sequence of events leading from a rifled jewel-case at one end to the crop of a goose in Tottenham Court Road at the other.
In an instant his strange headgear began to move, and there reared itself from among his hair the squat diamond-shaped head and puffed neck of a loathsome serpent.
Draw your chair up and hand me my violin, for the only problem we have still to solve is how to while away these bleak autumnal evenings." THE ADVENTURE OF THE BERYL CORONET "Holmes," said I as I stood one morning in our bow-window looking down the street, "here is a madman coming along.
my dear young lady!'--you cannot think how caressing and soothing his manner was--'and what has frightened you, my dear young lady?' "But his voice was just a little too coaxing.
And in practice again, I observe.
I snatched it up and examined it.
Great Lord of mercy!" The commissionaire plumped down into a chair and stared from one to the other of us.
I think that you remarked to your uncle last night that she had been out to see him?" "Yes, and she was the girl who waited in the drawing-room, and who may have heard uncle's remarks about the coronet." "I see.
You look cold, Mr.
"Sold out of geese, I see," continued Holmes, pointing at the bare slabs of marble.
Angel began to call, for it was obvious that the matter should be pushed as far as it would go if a real effect were to be produced.
I was then much surprised and interested on glancing down to observe that, though the boots which she was wearing were not unlike each other, they were really odd ones; the one having a slightly decorated toe-cap, and the other a plain one.
With your permission, Mr.
I think that if anyone could have drawn him into the right path it would have been she, and that his marriage might have changed his whole life; but now, alas!
Our visitor bore every mark of being an average commonplace British tradesman, obese, pompous, and slow.
My doctor says it is a question whether I shall live a month.
If, on the other hand, I am to do it in the name of the firm, then in justice to my partner I must insist that, even in your case, every businesslike precaution should be taken.' "'I should much prefer to have it so,' said he, raising up a square, black morocco case which he had laid beside his chair.
It had been hacked or torn right out from the roots.
And this?
The trap drove on, and a few minutes later we saw a sudden light spring up among the trees as the lamp was lit in one of the sitting-rooms.
I simply want your opinion about a hydraulic stamping machine which has got out of gear.
Frank had been a prisoner among the Apaches, had escaped, came on to 'Frisco, found that I had given him up for dead and had gone to England, followed me there, and had come upon me at last on the very morning of my second wedding." "I saw it in a paper," explained the American.
"'Well,' said I, 'the gentleman at No.
Now her marriage would mean, of course, the loss of a hundred a year, so what does her stepfather do to prevent it?
Then she threw open a door which led into a bedroom, through the window of which the moon was shining brightly.
It was sheer frenzy of this sort which made him throw his hands up into the air when his father, at their last interview, was goading him on to propose to Miss Turner.
"Do you know the young lady?" I asked.
If you could send her into the cellar on some errand, and then turn the key upon her, you would facilitate matters immensely." "I will do it." "Excellent!
As he ran he jerked his hands up and down, waggled his head, and writhed his face into the most extraordinary contortions.
There was little difficulty in entering the grounds, for unrepaired breaches gaped in the old park wall.
Miss Hunter screamed and shrunk against the wall at the sight of him, but Sherlock Holmes sprang forward and confronted him.
It is probable.
The first had walked both ways, but the other had run swiftly, and as his tread was marked in places over the depression of the boot, it was obvious that he had passed after the other.
Now I have told you all my adventures, Mr.
It was obvious at a glance that the story of the fuller's-earth was the merest fabrication, for it would be absurd to suppose that so powerful an engine could be designed for so inadequate a purpose.
Well, Watson, we are, I fancy, nearing the end of our quest, and the only point which remains to be determined is whether we should go on to this Mrs.
'You will, however, I am sure, excuse me for taking an obvious precaution.' With that he seized my hair in both his hands, and tugged until I yelled with the pain.
But if your husband is alive and able to write letters, why should he remain away from you?" "I cannot imagine.
Now the question is--Where are we to find the photograph?" "Where, indeed?" "It is most unlikely that she carries it about with her.
Here it is, and you can read for yourself." He held up a piece of white cardboard about the size of a sheet of note-paper.
"'Why,' says he, 'here's another vacancy on the League of the Red-headed Men.
It is my business to know what other people don't know." "But you can know nothing of this?" "Excuse me, I know everything of it.
Let me have the date of the reception by your uncle of the letter, and the date of his supposed suicide." "The letter arrived on March 10, 1883.
I have not seen a paper for some days." "The London press has not had very full accounts.
No crime," said Sherlock Holmes, laughing.
On the left ran a lane which led to the stables, and was not itself within the grounds at all, being a public, though little used, thoroughfare.
St.
It is impossible to exclude them when the church is open." "This gentleman was not one of your wife's friends?" "No, no; I call him a gentleman by courtesy, but he was quite a common-looking person.
"A patient!" said she.
She is a very pretty girl and has attracted admirers who have occasionally hung about the place.
Rucastle drew down the blind.
"'Mr.
Clair's assertion that she had actually seen her husband at the window, he declared that she must have been either mad or dreaming.
There is not, and there never has been, any such person." Lestrade looked sadly at my companion.
"The glass still keeps very high," he remarked as he sat down.
St.
You will find it laid out upon the bed in your room, and if you would be so good as to put it on we should both be extremely obliged.' "The dress which I found waiting for me was of a peculiar shade of blue.
I tell you that he is a clever and dangerous man.
"Now we shall go upstairs," said he at last.
The speckled band!' There was something else which she would fain have said, and she stabbed with her finger into the air in the direction of the doctor's room, but a fresh convulsion seized her and choked her words.
Yet, with all this, you made me reveal what you wanted to know.
you find it so?" "Extremely so.
I know all about McCarthy." The old man sank his face in his hands.
This text was formatted from various free ASCII and HTML variants.
Outside the wind still screamed and the rain splashed and pattered against the windows.
A few moments later he was in our room, still puffing, still gesticulating, but with so fixed a look of grief and despair in his eyes that our smiles were turned in an instant to horror and pity.
"You'll come with me, won't you?" "If I can be of use." "Oh, a trusty comrade is always of use; and a chronicler still more so.
She had written in a hurry and dipped her pen too deep.
It seemed to me that her mistress allowed her to take great liberties.
Smack!
Rucastle seemed to be a very kind, good-natured man.
Between the wharf and the bedroom window is a narrow strip, which is dry at low tide but is covered at high tide with at least four and a half feet of water.
Rucastle are going on a visit, and will be away all the evening, so that I must look after the child.
I only doubt--' "'The propriety of my leaving it.
"'Yes, but you would not have me leave it a dishonoured man,' said he.
There was the end of this tangled clue.
"They used to send father tickets when he was alive, and then afterwards they remembered us, and sent them to mother.
We are spies in an enemy's country.
"Irene's photograph!" he cried.
Our client appeared to have taken fresh heart at the little glimpse of hope which had been presented to him, and he even broke into a desultory chat with me over his business affairs.
Then suddenly realising the exposure, he broke into a scream and threw himself down with his face to the pillow.
What was the relation between them, and what the object of his repeated visits?
Holmes, I am a very stay-at-home man, and as my business came to me instead of my having to go to it, I was often weeks on end without putting my foot over the door-mat.
You saw her return by the kitchen door, I presume?" "Yes; when I went to see if the door was fastened for the night I met her slipping in.
Voilà tout!" "And Miss Sutherland?" "If I tell her she will not believe me.
The lens discloses a large number of hair-ends, clean cut by the scissors of the barber.
"Well, when they closed their League offices that was a sign that they cared no longer about Mr.
It was a little past six when I arrived, so I went first to have my wound dressed, and then the doctor was kind enough to bring me along here.
You see all these isolated facts, together with many minor ones, all pointed in the same direction." "And how did you verify them?" "Having once spotted my man, it was easy to get corroboration.
"I wired to Bristol for it last night." He put his hand over part of the map.
Now, I'll state the case clearly and concisely to you, Watson, and maybe you can see a spark where all is dark to me." "Proceed, then." "Some years ago--to be definite, in May, 1884--there came to Lee a gentleman, Neville St.
I did it, Mr.
I hate to meet her, Watson, when I have no news of her husband.
K.
"I suppose, Watson," said he, "that you imagine that I have added opium-smoking to cocaine injections, and all the other little weaknesses on which you have favoured me with your medical views." "I was certainly surprised to find you there." "But not more so than I to find you." "I came to find a friend." "And I to find an enemy." "An enemy?" "Yes; one of my natural enemies, or, shall I say, my natural prey.
"Farintosh," said he.
With trembling hands I undid my trunk, turned out the contents, and drew from the bottom my own hair.
Clair, the clouds lighten, though I should not venture to say that the danger is over." "But he must be alive, Mr.
Not a word of news came for a year and more, so that I never doubted that Frank was really dead.
She responded beautifully.
Young McCarthy must be got off, however." "I am a dying man," said old Turner.
It must have been this morning, or the mark would not remain clear upon the finger.
I thought of my fifty-guinea fee, of my wearisome journey, and of the unpleasant night which seemed to be before me.
One by one the management of the noble houses of Great Britain is passing into the hands of our fair cousins from across the Atlantic.
Simon, tapping his fingers upon the table.
There is no lane so vile that the scream of a tortured child, or the thud of a drunkard's blow, does not beget sympathy and indignation among the neighbours, and then the whole machinery of justice is ever so close that a word of complaint can set it going, and there is but a step between the crime and the dock.
Yet this emaciation seemed to be his natural habit, and due to no disease, for his eye was bright, his step brisk, and his bearing assured.
Holmes; I have heard of you from Mrs.
On returning, he found that Horner had disappeared, that the bureau had been forced open, and that the small morocco casket in which, as it afterwards transpired, the Countess was accustomed to keep her jewel, was lying empty upon the dressing-table.
Your life may depend upon your compliance." "I assure you that I am in your hands." "In the first place, both my friend and I must spend the night in your room." Both Miss Stoner and I gazed at him in astonishment.
I should feel so much stronger if I felt that you were at the back of me." "Oh, you may carry that feeling away with you.
His footmarks had pressed right through the snow, so long had he stood there.
Poor father has never been strong for years back, but this has broken him down completely.
I have no doubt that I am myself to blame.
Lestrade.
did I not tell you?" As he spoke, the man, puffing and blowing, rushed at our door and pulled at our bell until the whole house resounded with the clanging.
And so in ten minutes I had left my armchair and cheery sitting-room behind me, and was speeding eastward in a hansom on a strange errand, as it seemed to me at the time, though the future only could show how strange it was to be.
With these I journeyed down to Streatham and saw that they exactly fitted the tracks." "I saw an ill-dressed vagabond in the lane yesterday evening," said Mr.
Anybody bringing--" "That will do," said Holmes.
On my way I saw William Crowder, the game-keeper, as he had stated in his evidence; but he is mistaken in thinking that I was following my father.
I've had enough of it.
She will not be up, so that we shall have a clear field.
He said the folk were not fit for us to know, when all father's friends were to be there.
"Mrs.
I ought to know its size and shape, seeing that I have read the advertisement about it in The Times every day lately.
"What, then?" "It is fear, Mr.
Simon.
"I find it hard enough to tackle facts, Holmes, without flying away after theories and fancies." "You are right," said Holmes demurely; "you do find it very hard to tackle the facts." "Anyhow, I have grasped one fact which you seem to find it difficult to get hold of," replied Lestrade with some warmth.
Having found the ash, I then looked round and discovered the stump among the moss where he had tossed it.
Holder, we will set off for Streatham together, and devote an hour to glancing a little more closely into details." My friend insisted upon my accompanying them in their expedition, which I was eager enough to do, for my curiosity and sympathy were deeply stirred by the story to which we had listened.
Toller serenely.
'It's only Carlo, my mastiff.
Yet the matter was so delicate that I could not confide it to an agent without putting myself in his power.
And then the incident of the grey cloth seen by young McCarthy.
"I then lounged down the street and found, as I expected, that there was a mews in a lane which runs down by one wall of the garden.
But our trap should be here." He put his two forefingers between his teeth and whistled shrilly--a signal which was answered by a similar whistle from the distance, followed shortly by the rattle of wheels and the clink of horses' hoofs.
I then glanced at her face, and, observing the dint of a pince-nez at either side of her nose, I ventured a remark upon short sight and typewriting, which seemed to surprise her." "It surprised me." "But, surely, it was obvious.
Hosmer Angel?" "He was a very shy man, Mr.
A girl of fourteen, Patience Moran, who is the daughter of the lodge-keeper of the Boscombe Valley estate, was in one of the woods picking flowers.
So I think, and so, too, thinks my little Mary, who has a woman's quick insight into character.
"Still, if I had married Lord St.
Oh, sir, do you not think that you could help me, too, and at least throw a little light through the dense darkness which surrounds me?
When I cried out that it was a false alarm, she replaced it, glanced at the rocket, rushed from the room, and I have not seen her since.
It must be where she can lay her hands upon it.
very right!
Your Majesty will, of course, stay in London for the present?" "Certainly.
"Neville.
What do you want?" he asked in a quavering voice.
"Well, when I called last week I was shown into the little office as usual, but I found that Miss Stoper was not alone.
"Stoke Moran?" said he.
I put the case into your hands and shall do exactly what you advise." We both sat in silence for some little time after listening to this extraordinary narrative.
Hosmer Angel came to the house again and proposed that we should marry before father came back.
This gentleman, Mr.
Her bed this morning had not been slept in, her room was empty, and a note for me lay upon the hall table.
You have formed some conclusion?
Doran's house that morning." "Ah, yes.
"It is clear that Mrs.
Here he comes.
Oh, how simple it would all have been had I been here before they came like a herd of buffalo and wallowed all over it.
Isa Whitney, and I wish to speak with him." There was a movement and an exclamation from my right, and peering through the gloom, I saw Whitney, pale, haggard, and unkempt, staring out at me.
Impossible!" "It is unfortunately more than possible; it is certain.
Neville St.--Oh, come, you can't be charged with that unless they make a case of attempted suicide of it," said the inspector with a grin.
Holmes--a grievous disappointment.
"I knew your energetic nature, and that you would not be happy until you had been on the scene of the crime." "It was very nice and complimentary of you," Holmes answered.
The country roads seem to be not very good in that part of the world, for we lurched and jolted terribly.
There was no maker's name; but, as Holmes had remarked, the initials "H.
Holmes, for I wish you to thoroughly understand the situation.
"This is the girl's stepfather, Mr.
But here"--I picked up the morning paper from the ground--"let us put it to a practical test.
As I ran down the passage, my sister's door was unlocked, and revolved slowly upon its hinges.
Holmes had sat up upon the couch, and I saw him motion like a man who is in need of air.
For all these reasons I expected them to come to-night." "You reasoned it out beautifully," I exclaimed in unfeigned admiration.
Probably he handed it to some sailor customer of his, who forgot all about it for some days." "That was it," said Holmes, nodding approvingly; "I have no doubt of it.
There could be no doubt that, as it was a national possession, a horrible scandal would ensue if any misfortune should occur to it.
Sherlock Holmes' cases." "I should be ungrateful if I were not, seeing what I gained through one of them," I answered.
The metallic clang heard by Miss Stoner was obviously caused by her stepfather hastily closing the door of his safe upon its terrible occupant.
It was empty.
What will he say when he returns?" "He must guard himself, for he may find that there is someone more cunning than himself upon his track.
Fowler was a very kind-spoken, free-handed gentleman," said Mrs.
James McCarthy, the only son of the deceased, was then called and gave evidence as follows: 'I had been away from home for three days at Bristol, and had only just returned upon the morning of last Monday, the 3rd.
"God help us!" said Holmes after a long silence.
"Not a word.
Easier the other way, perhaps; and yet, had I the nerve to lie and look up at that deadly black shadow wavering down upon me?
Henry Baker," said Holmes when he had closed the door behind him.
His wicked lust for gold kindled at the news, and he bent her to his will.
There was but one way for it.
In the meantime Mr.
"Because there are many inquiries which must be made out here.
After all, if these people had strange fads and expected obedience on the most extraordinary matters, they were at least ready to pay for their eccentricity.
"You must make allowance for this poor girl, placed in so unprecedented a position." "I will make no allowance.
"No, no; the real name," said Holmes sweetly.
Come along!" We travelled by the Underground as far as Aldersgate; and a short walk took us to Saxe-Coburg Square, the scene of the singular story which we had listened to in the morning.
The grey pavement had been cleaned and scraped, but was still dangerously slippery, so that there were fewer passengers than usual.
I lent the ostlers a hand in rubbing down their horses, and received in exchange twopence, a glass of half and half, two fills of shag tobacco, and as much information as I could desire about Miss Adler, to say nothing of half a dozen other people in the neighbourhood in whom I was not in the least interested, but whose biographies I was compelled to listen to." "And what of Irene Adler?" I asked.
"My sister had told me some weeks before that I might have the pick of her geese for a Christmas present, and I knew that she was always as good as her word.
"Mr.
Now, by the merest chance, his wife received a telegram upon this same Monday, very shortly after his departure, to the effect that a small parcel of considerable value which she had been expecting was waiting for her at the offices of the Aberdeen Shipping Company.
"Eh?
She was bound to have me in.
'A husband's cruelty to his wife.' There is half a column of print, but I know without reading it that it is all perfectly familiar to me.
A thick fog rolled down between the lines of dun-coloured houses, and the opposing windows loomed like dark, shapeless blurs through the heavy yellow wreaths.
And now let us hear a true account of the next act.
Getting a vacancy did not seem to be such a very easy matter, after all.
They will see that you are not there.
"His name is Vincent Spaulding, and he's not such a youth, either.
A frayed top-hat and a faded brown overcoat with a wrinkled velvet collar lay upon a chair beside him.
A conversation ensued which led to high words and almost to blows, for my father was a man of a very violent temper.
His extreme love of solitude in England suggests the idea that he was in fear of someone or something, so we may assume as a working hypothesis that it was fear of someone or something which drove him from America.
The alarm, however, was given, and, by the aid of the water-police, the body was eventually recovered.
The dear fellow wanted to see if the missing piece were at the scene of the struggle.
The game-keeper adds that within a few minutes of his seeing Mr.
From the time that I heard of the assistant having come for half wages, it was obvious to me that he had some strong motive for securing the situation." "But how could you guess what the motive was?" "Had there been women in the house, I should have suspected a mere vulgar intrigue.
Oh, he will be silent!' "'You are mad, Elise!' he shouted, struggling to break away from her.
Roylott's room." With a grave face he lit the lamp and led the way down the corridor.
I feel better now, and I will put the facts before you as shortly and yet as clearly as I can.
Henry Baker can have the same by applying at 6.30 this evening at 221b, Baker Street.' That is clear and concise." "Very.
He was himself red-headed, and he had a great sympathy for all red-headed men; so when he died it was found that he had left his enormous fortune in the hands of trustees, with instructions to apply the interest to the providing of easy berths to men whose hair is of that colour.
"The game's up, Ryder," said Holmes quietly.
There is a trap-door at the back of that building, near the corner of Paul's Wharf, which could tell some strange tales of what has passed through it upon the moonless nights." "What!
"Here?" "Yes; I rather think he is coming to consult me professionally.
I know, also, that they were all three away from the ship last night.
With this intention, I called a cab and drove out to my house at Streatham, carrying the jewel with me.
Duncan Ross; 'neither sickness nor business nor anything else.
'Pon my word, it is a great thing for me to have someone to talk to, for my own thoughts are not over-pleasant.
'Here are the very letters.
Then, when he had left, you rifled the jewel-case, raised the alarm, and had this unfortunate man arrested.
Your husband, as far as you could see, had his ordinary clothes on?" "But without his collar or tie.
"I felt angry at having been tricked by so elaborate a story as that which he had told me.
I am a light sleeper, and it has awakened me.
I trust that I am not more dense than my neighbours, but I was always oppressed with a sense of my own stupidity in my dealings with Sherlock Holmes.
A short railway journey and a shorter walk brought us to Fairbank, the modest residence of the great financier.
It was only by trying begging as an amateur that I could get the facts upon which to base my articles.
The roadway was blocked with the immense stream of commerce flowing in a double tide inward and outward, while the footpaths were black with the hurrying swarm of pedestrians.
They are all, as he remarks, very much against the son." Holmes laughed softly to himself and stretched himself out upon the cushioned seat.
He would get quite mad if I wanted so much as to join a Sunday-school treat.
The first consideration is to remove the pressing danger which threatens you.
The man's face peeled off under the sponge like the bark from a tree.
Those are the crucial points upon which the case depends.
It had escaped my memory.
I thought of the assistant's fondness for photography, and his trick of vanishing into the cellar.
Sherlock Holmes was already at breakfast when I came down.
She had small round, hanging gold earrings, and a general air of being fairly well-to-do in a vulgar, comfortable, easy-going way." Sherlock Holmes clapped his hands softly together and chuckled.
My wants were few and simple, so that in less than the time stated I was in a cab with my valise, rattling away to Paddington Station.
It would break their hearts.
Men at his time of life do not change all their habits and exchange willingly the charming climate of Florida for the lonely life of an English provincial town.
The only drawback is that there is no law, I fear, that can touch the scoundrel." "Who was he, then, and what was his object in deserting Miss Sutherland?" The question was hardly out of my mouth, and Holmes had not yet opened his lips to reply, when we heard a heavy footfall in the passage and a tap at the door.
Now, when you see that a young lady, otherwise neatly dressed, has come away from home with odd boots, half-buttoned, it is no great deduction to say that she came away in a hurry." "And what else?" I asked, keenly interested, as I always was, by my friend's incisive reasoning.
If you don't--it's a fine, law-abiding country is England, and there's always a policeman within hail.' "Well, down they came to the west country, there was no shaking them off, and there they have lived rent free on my best land ever since.
I believe that she is capable of heroic self-sacrifice and that anything dishonourable would be repugnant to her." "Have you her photograph?" "I brought this with me." He opened a locket and showed us the full face of a very lovely woman.
The will is very clear upon that point.
Folk who were in grief came to my wife like birds to a light-house.
Only one man knew my secret.
I know I ought to have spoken to Lord St.
Give her her head.
Monica, John,' she cried, 'and half a sovereign if you reach it in twenty minutes.' "This was quite too good to lose, Watson.
I shall communicate with you." "Should you be fortunate enough to solve this problem," said our client, rising.
Far from hushing the thing up, I have brought a gentleman down from London to inquire more deeply into it." "This gentleman?" she asked, facing round to me.
Neville St.
"It is a question of cubic capacity," said he; "a man with so large a brain must have something in it." "The decline of his fortunes, then?" "This hat is three years old.
Boone, as I have told you, was arrested and taken to the station, but it could not be shown that there had ever before been anything against him.
"Your boy, Arthur, went to bed after his interview with you but he slept badly on account of his uneasiness about his club debts.
"I must really ask you to be a little more quiet!" said Holmes severely.
It seemed strange talk for a wedding-morning, but what has happened since gives a meaning to it." "Most certainly it does.
Snapping away with a camera when he ought to be improving his mind, and then diving down into the cellar like a rabbit into its hole to develop his pictures.
'And the pay?' "'Is £4 a week.' "'And the work?' "'Is purely nominal.' "'What do you call purely nominal?' "'Well, you have to be in the office, or at least in the building, the whole time.
I bought this estate, which chanced to be in the market, and I set myself to do a little good with my money, to make up for the way in which I had earned it.
"Not I." "It is half-past ten now." "Yes, and I have no doubt that is her ring." "It may turn out to be of more interest than you think.
'Which is it you want, then?' "'That white one with the barred tail, right in the middle of the flock.' "'Oh, very well.
She said nothing, but I am convinced that she had divined that I had a mirror in my hand and had seen what was behind me.
There is one remarkable point, however, which will no doubt strike you." "They are typewritten," I remarked.
She passed down the stairs, and he, thrilling with horror, ran along and slipped behind the curtain near your door, whence he could see what passed in the hall beneath.
It was easy to see that she was passionately devoted both to her husband and to her little son.
The furniture was scattered about in every direction, with dismantled shelves and open drawers, as if the lady had hurriedly ransacked them before her flight.
He brought up a card, too, with the name of 'Colonel Lysander Stark' engraved upon it.
"Really, now!" cried the inspector, "you have formed your opinion!
"But I have heard that the crocuses promise well," continued my companion imperturbably.
"Well, of course it was obvious from the first that this Mr.
If you should find yourself in doubt or in danger--" "Danger!
I will leave your house in the morning and make my own way in the world.' "'You shall leave it in the hands of the police!' I cried half-mad with grief and rage.
Clair walked slowly, glancing about in the hope of seeing a cab, as she did not like the neighbourhood in which she found herself.
Of her I could see nothing.
You have really done very well indeed.
Well, he has always answered me like that.
They were found floating near the margin by a park-keeper.
As I gave a last hurried glance around, I saw a thin line of yellow light between two of the boards, which broadened and broadened as a small panel was pushed backward.
It is in the personal column of the Morning Post, and dates, as you see, some weeks back: "'A marriage has been arranged [it says] and will, if rumour is correct, very shortly take place, between Lord Robert St.
I wonder I didn't drop.
"They might be useful to me as relics of my adventure," said he, "but beyond that I can hardly see what use the disjecta membra of my late acquaintance are going to be to me.
I heard his wife tell Mrs.
"Precisely.
How do I know that you have been getting yourself very wet lately, and that you have a most clumsy and careless servant girl?" "My dear Holmes," said I, "this is too much.
I had been warned against you months ago.
Their papers they mean to have, be the holder of them who it may.
He sat at my side in silence all the time, and I was aware, more than once when I glanced in his direction, that he was looking at me with great intensity.
I had just finished my tea when he returned, evidently in excellent spirits, swinging an old elastic-sided boot in his hand.
"I have been a governess for five years," said she, "in the family of Colonel Spence Munro, but two months ago the colonel received an appointment at Halifax, in Nova Scotia, and took his children over to America with him, so that I found myself without a situation.
"What has she been saying to you?" screamed the old man furiously.
Here is something interesting!" The object which had caught his eye was a small dog lash hung on one corner of the bed.
The cellar!
Large masses of nickel and of tin were discovered stored in an out-house, but no coins were to be found, which may have explained the presence of those bulky boxes which have been already referred to.
Out there fell a cascade of children's bricks.
It swelled up louder and louder, a hoarse yell of pain and fear and anger all mingled in the one dreadful shriek.
But to my astonishment, when I came to look round me, neither house nor garden were to be seen.
Remember the card upon the bird's leg." "You have an answer to everything.
It rested upon a heading which sent a chill to my heart.
"'I would go,' said she, trying hard, as it seemed to me, to speak calmly; 'I would go.
"Oh, it won't do--really it won't," said Holmes suavely.
He had no occupation, but was interested in several companies and went into town as a rule in the morning, returning by the 5.14 from Cannon Street every night.
Aloysius Doran, in conjunction with the bridegroom, instantly put themselves in communication with the police, and very energetic inquiries are being made, which will probably result in a speedy clearing up of this very singular business.
The latter led to another broad passage, and just as we reached it we heard the sound of running feet and the shouting of two voices, one answering the other from the floor on which  we were and from the one beneath.
She was plainly but neatly dressed, with a bright, quick face, freckled like a plover's egg, and with the brisk manner of a woman who has had her own way to make in the world.
"When I went down there I found him talking with his son, so I smoked a cigar and waited behind a tree until he should be alone.
As he said, what interest could anyone have in bringing me to the doors of the church, and then leaving me?
Suddenly, to my horror, there was a distinct sound of footsteps moving softly in the next room.
He told me that a gipsy had done it for him when he was a lad." "Hum!" said Holmes, sinking back in deep thought.
If they fire, Watson, have no compunction about shooting them down." I placed my revolver, cocked, upon the top of the wooden case behind which I crouched.
I thought of the agonies I had gone through in coming from the hotel.
We have boxed the compass among us.
data!
It had only lain there a few days.
You don't comply with the conditions if you budge from the office during that time.' "'It's only four hours a day, and I should not think of leaving,' said I.
"We both thought the best resource was flight, when pursued by so formidable an antagonist; so you will find the nest empty when you call to-morrow.
Kindly hand me down the letter K of the 'American Encyclopaedia' which stands upon the shelf beside you.
These good people were absolutely ignorant that their land contained that which was quite as valuable as a gold-mine.
When an actor I had, of course, learned all the secrets of making up, and had been famous in the green-room for my skill.
Wilson, you would have the great kindness to recommence your narrative.
There is a strong presumption that the person whom McCarthy expected to meet him at Boscombe Pool was someone who had been in Australia." "What of the rat, then?" Sherlock Holmes took a folded paper from his pocket and flattened it out on the table.
Then, suddenly springing to his feet, he beat his head against the wall with such force that we both rushed upon him and tore him away to the centre of the room.
He walked up to the sideboard, and tearing a piece from the loaf he devoured it voraciously, washing it down with a long draught of water.
We heard the door open, a few hurried words, and then quick steps upon the linoleum.
Who are you?
"We never thought that she would have been so carried away." "Very likely not.
His whole life appears to be spent in an alternation between savage fits of passion and gloomy intervals of sulking.
When I pay good money for a good article there should be an end of the business; but it's 'Where are the geese?' and 'Who did you sell the geese to?' and 'What will you take for the geese?' One would think they were the only geese in the world, to hear the fuss that is made over them." "Well, I have no connection with any other people who have been making inquiries," said Holmes carelessly.
You just read it for yourself, sir." I took the paper from him and read as follows: "To the Red-headed League: On account of the bequest of the late Ezekiah Hopkins, of Lebanon, Pennsylvania, U.
Good-bye.
A vague feeling of uneasiness began to steal over me.
They were all engaged for the evening." "I guessed as much." "Then, when the row broke out, I had a little moist red paint in the palm of my hand.
To do this, we must try the simplest means first, and these lie undoubtedly in an advertisement in all the evening papers.
Oakshott to-night, or whether we should reserve it for to-morrow.
What could it be?
"Now lead the way, and we shall soon see the end of this black business." We passed up the stair, unlocked the door, followed on down a passage, and found ourselves in front of the barricade which Miss Hunter had described.
There is a wonderful sympathy and freemasonry among horsey men.
On the other hand, the face and manner of my patron had made an unpleasant impression upon me, and I could not think that his explanation of the fuller's-earth was sufficient to explain the necessity for my coming at midnight, and his extreme anxiety lest I should tell anyone of my errand.
But the creature flapped and struggled, and out came my sister to know what was the matter.
And now, Miss Stoner, we must leave you for if Dr.
Another, Lucy Parr, the second waiting-maid, has only been in my service a few months.
Now let us consider the situation and see what may be deduced from it.
When I saw him that afternoon so enwrapped in the music at St.
"Yes.
"My name is John Robinson," he answered with a sidelong glance.
I can never bring you to realise the importance of sleeves, the suggestiveness of thumb-nails, or the great issues that may hang from a boot-lace.
Altogether, look as I would, there was nothing remarkable about the man save his blazing red head, and the expression of extreme chagrin and discontent upon his features.
Rucastle's." "You have done well indeed!" cried Holmes with enthusiasm.
Mary was the first to rush into my room, and, at the sight of the coronet and of Arthur's face, she read the whole story and, with a scream, fell down senseless on the ground.
a murderous attack?" "Very murderous indeed." "You horrify me." I sponged the wound, cleaned it, dressed it, and finally covered it over with cotton wadding and carbolised bandages.
Deeply as I have sinned, I have led a life of martyrdom to atone for it.
"Well, then, ask Mrs.
Surely your medical experience would tell you, Watson, that weakness in one limb is often compensated for by exceptional strength in the others." "Pray continue your narrative." "Mrs.
You can understand that, living the life which I have described, we were little likely to see anyone of our own age and position.
It was awful to me to think of all those lords and ladies sitting round that breakfast-table and waiting for me to come back.
Simon, second son of the Duke of Balmoral, and Miss Hatty Doran, the only daughter of Aloysius Doran.
You have made two blunders in as many minutes.
Hudson to examine its crop." I had been delayed at a case, and it was a little after half-past six when I found myself in Baker Street once more.
It was not a photograph but an ivory miniature, and the artist had brought out the full effect of the lustrous black hair, the large dark eyes, and the exquisite mouth.
I suppose that you have been watching the habits, and perhaps the house, of Miss Irene Adler." "Quite so; but the sequel was rather unusual.
At last the little money which I had saved began to run short, and I was at my wit's end as to what I should do.
"Your own deathbeds, when they come, will be the easier for the thought of the peace which you have given to mine." Tottering and shaking in all his giant frame, he stumbled slowly from the room.
"It makes you quite invaluable as a companion.
They spoke of those hours of burrowing.
His defence was one of absolute ignorance, and he protested that he had no knowledge as to the doings of Hugh Boone, his lodger, and that he could not account in any way for the presence of the missing gentleman's clothes.
Rucastle's hands.
I should like a few particulars as to this young lady, and your relations to her." Lord St.
Swiftly I threw off my clothes, pulled on those of a beggar, and put on my pigments and wig.
But when I gave him every particular that had occurred, he tried to bluster and took down a life-preserver from the wall.
When a woman thinks that her house is on fire, her instinct is at once to rush to the thing which she values most.
A horrible doubt came into my mind as I approached the door lest the dog might be loose, but I remembered that Toller had drunk himself into a state of insensibility that evening, and I knew that he was the only one in the household who had any influence with the savage creature, or who would venture to set him free.
You should have been a surgeon." "It is a question of hydraulics, you see, and came within my own province." "This has been done," said I, examining the wound, "by a very heavy and sharp instrument." "A thing like a cleaver," said he.
It is the first Saturday night for seven-and-twenty years that I have not had my rubber." "I think you will find," said Sherlock Holmes, "that you will play for a higher stake to-night than you have ever done yet, and that the play will be more exciting.
Sir, I can stand this strain no longer; I shall go mad if it continues.
Who would think that so pretty a toy would be a purveyor to the gallows and the prison?
Don't you see that the converse is equally valid.
"I am Mr.
Still, of course, in America they look upon these things in a different way." "How long did she speak to this Alice?" "Oh, a few minutes.
In one of these wings the windows were broken and blocked with wooden boards, while the roof was partly caved in, a picture of ruin.
In the first place, we may start with a strong presumption that Colonel Openshaw had some very strong reason for leaving America.
I went to my work as usual at ten o'clock, but the door was shut and locked, with a little square of cardboard hammered on to the middle of the panel with a tack.
Did I not see you trying to tear off another piece?' "'You have called me names enough,' said he, 'I will not stand it any longer.
I had been told that if the King employed an agent it would certainly be you.
"This is my friend and colleague, Dr.
Stoner, the young widow of Major-General Stoner, of the Bengal Artillery.
From under this great panoply she peeped up in a nervous, hesitating fashion at our windows, while her body oscillated backward and forward, and her fingers fidgeted with her glove buttons.
His cheeks were red, his brow was all crinkled with anger, and the veins stood out at his temples with passion.
Even when she was just a baby her wee hand seemed to lead me down the right path as nothing else had ever done.
"I shall glance into the case for you," said Holmes, rising, "and I have no doubt that we shall reach some definite result.
"'Ah, very well; then that quite settles the matter.
I tried to puzzle it out, but gave it up in despair and set the matter aside until night should bring an explanation.
There is a train from Paddington which would bring you there at about 11.15.' "'Very good.' "'I shall come down in a carriage to meet you.' "'There is a drive, then?' "'Yes, our little place is quite out in the country.
Many people are improved by wearing it short and perhaps I should be among the number.
I can hardly see how the lady could have acted otherwise, though her abrupt method of doing it was undoubtedly to be regretted.
I am the last court of appeal." "And yet I question, sir, whether, in all your experience, you have ever listened to a more mysterious and inexplicable chain of events than those which have happened in my own family." "You fill me with interest," said Holmes.
In dress now, for example.
Well, then, here on this page are the country folk, and the numbers after their names are where their accounts are in the big ledger.
I was ten miles or so from Eyford, that was all I knew, but whether north, south, east, or west I had no idea.
What did they say, then, of the disappearance of these gems?" "They are still sounding the planking and probing the furniture in the hope of finding them." "Have they thought of looking outside the house?" "Yes, they have shown extraordinary energy.
During two years I have had three consultations and one small job, and that is absolutely all that my profession has brought me.
Hum!
Your affection for Arthur blinds you as to the awful consequences to me.
As I descended, my old ally, the guard, came out of the room and closed the door tightly behind him.
I do not think that I have ever seen such deadly paleness in a woman's face.
Hosmer came for us in a hansom, but as there were two of us he put us both into it and stepped himself into a four-wheeler, which happened to be the only other cab in the street.
"Pray be precise as to details," said he.
"I tell you that it is Friday, man.
Why, bless my soul!
Kindly turn round and motion to him to go away.' "'Surely it would be better to take no notice.' "'No, no, we should have him loitering here always.
Hence those vows of fidelity exacted upon a Testament, and hence also the allusions to a possibility of something happening on the very morning of the wedding.
"Stop it!" I cried; "pull yourself together!" and I poured out some water from a caraffe.
It is quite too transparent, and it was a very bad compliment when you said that it was impossible for me to solve so simple a question.
My sister thinks that I am going mad.
"Well, I have only just heard the facts, but my mind is made up." "Oh, indeed!
Oh, Mr.
Early that morning a peasant had met a cart containing several people and some very bulky boxes driving rapidly in the direction of Reading, but there all traces of the fugitives disappeared, and even Holmes' ingenuity failed ever to discover the least clue as to their whereabouts.
that is suggestive.
Just read it out to me." "Mrs.
There was a parallel instance in Aberdeen some years back, and something on very much the same lines at Munich the year after the Franco-Prussian War.
I rushed out, calling loudly for my stepfather, and I met him hastening from his room in his dressing-gown.
Both he and the Lascar stoutly swore that no one else had been in the front room during the afternoon.
"Oh, yes; plenty.
I may add that his whole debts at the present moment, as far as we have been able to ascertain, amount to £88 10s., while he has £220 standing to his credit in the Capital and Counties Bank.
And now, Watson, this is too serious for dawdling, especially as the old man is aware that we are interesting ourselves in his affairs; so if you are ready, we shall call a cab and drive to Waterloo.
"It is simplicity itself," said he; "my eyes tell me that on the inside of your left shoe, just where the firelight strikes it, the leather is scored by six almost parallel cuts.
This business at Coburg Square is serious." "Why serious?" "A considerable crime is in contemplation.
"Just look up the trains in Bradshaw," said he, and turned back to his chemical studies.
Twice burglars in my pay ransacked her house.
That is The Cedars, and beside that lamp sits a woman whose anxious ears have already, I have little doubt, caught the clink of our horse's feet." "But why are you not conducting the case from Baker Street?" I asked.
"Do not go asleep; your very life may depend upon it.
My gross takings amount to £27 10s.
Roylott's, the second my sister's, and the third my own.
It was already dusk, and the lamps were just being lighted as we paced up and down in front of Briony Lodge, waiting for the coming of its occupant.
The police have openly confessed that they can at present make nothing of it.
And the man who wrote the note is a German.
S." carved upon it, and that is all which we shall ever know of the fate of the Lone Star.
The self-reproach and contrition which are displayed in his remark appear to me to be the signs of a healthy mind rather than of a guilty one." I shook my head.
"He has written to me to say that he would be here at six.
My guide stopped and looked about her like one  who is at her wit's end.
"'Photography is one of my hobbies,' said he.
Let the whole incident be a sealed book, and do not allow it to affect your life." "You are very kind, Mr.
Inspector Bradstreet would, I am sure, make notes upon anything which you might tell us and submit it to the proper authorities.
"There are several quiet little villages up there." "And I am for north," said I, "because there are no hills there, and our friend says that he did not notice the carriage go up any." "Come," cried the inspector, laughing; "it's a very pretty diversity of opinion.
But have you never been prosecuted for begging?" "Many times; but what was a fine to me?" "It must stop here, however," said Bradstreet.
Capital!
Grimesby Roylott's death, and I cannot say that it is likely to weigh very heavily upon my conscience." THE ADVENTURE OF THE ENGINEER'S THUMB Of all the problems which have been submitted to my friend, Mr.
A stable-boy had run out to the horse's head, and springing down, I followed Holmes up the small, winding gravel-drive which led to the house.
But how about the foresight and the moral retrogression?" Sherlock Holmes laughed.
One day my editor wished to have a series of articles upon begging in the metropolis, and I volunteered to supply them.
Hosmer Angel." A flush stole over Miss Sutherland's face, and she picked nervously at the fringe of her jacket.
"You see, but you do not observe.
Clair, of Lee, in the county of Kent." Never in my life have I seen such a sight.
Here is where the party with the lodge-keeper came, and they have covered all tracks for six or eight feet round the body.
Now, I know that there are seventeen steps, because I have both seen and observed.
"Oh, come, it may prove to be something of interest, after all." "Not social, then?" "No, distinctly professional." "And from a noble client?" "One of the highest in England." "My dear fellow, I congratulate you." "I assure you, Watson, without affectation, that the status of my client is a matter of less moment to me than the interest of his case.
I caught it, and prying its bill open, I thrust the stone down its throat as far as my finger could reach.
I shall not say another word about this business, since you have chosen to insult me.
Could I not come at some more convenient hour?' "'We have judged it best that you should come late.
Suddenly there was the momentary gleam of a light up in the direction of the ventilator, which vanished immediately, but was succeeded by a strong smell of burning oil and heated metal.
At two o'clock he bade me good-day, complimented me upon the amount that I had written, and locked the door of the office after me.
I looked at it before," said Lestrade.
"Holmes, the busybody!" His smile broadened.
It is peculiarly strong and stiff." "Peculiar--that is the very word," said Holmes.
"Yes," said Holmes, answering the look rather than the words.
"The band!
There he was to be found, she was sure of it, at the Bar of Gold, in Upper Swandam Lane.
The fund was, of course, for the propagation and spread of the red-heads as well as for their maintenance.
"You look dissatisfied." "And I feel dissatisfied.
"What did you go into the pool for?" he asked.
There was no furniture save a little pallet bed, a small table, and a basketful of linen.
Come, now, we shall see who agrees with you.
I should be compelled to stop the night.' "'Yes, we could easily give you a shake-down.' "'That is very awkward.
Both Mr.
"Oh, yes, I know that I have treated you real bad and that I should have spoken to you before I went; but I was kind of rattled, and from the time when I saw Frank here again I just didn't know what I was doing or saying.
I was standing, rapt in the peaceful beauty of the scene, when I was aware that something was moving under the shadow of the copper beeches.
"'They may do what they like, but I'll checkmate them still,' said he with an oath.
If I can be of any assistance, either to you or to my friend here, I shall be indeed happy." "Now, Mr.
I congratulate you warmly." Lestrade rose in his triumph and bent his head to look.
In this I was asked to sit, and then Mr.
And good-night, Watson," he added, as the wheels of the royal brougham rolled down the street.
Colonel Stark went up to her, whispered something in her ear, and then, pushing her back into the room from whence she had come, he walked towards me again with the lamp in his hand.
"I only looked in as I passed," said he.
"You may rely upon my doing all that I can." "But you have read the evidence.
He drank a great deal of brandy and smoked very heavily, but he would see no society and did not want any friends, not even his own brother.
It is exceedingly unfortunate that you should be a bachelor.' "My face lengthened at this, Mr.
"I really wouldn't miss your case for the world.
"'Have you never heard of the League of the Red-headed Men?' he asked with his eyes open.
As I passed the tall man who sat by the brazier I felt a sudden pluck at my skirt, and a low voice whispered, "Walk past me, and then look back at me." The words fell quite distinctly upon my ear.
His grip has been upon me these twenty years, and he has blasted my life.
It must, then, be something out of the house.
We have a seven-mile drive before us." "But I am all in the dark." "Of course you are.
The crate upon which I sit contains 2,000 napoleons packed between layers of lead foil.
"Do you mean that she has left England?" "Never to return." "And the papers?" asked the King hoarsely.
I heard the creature hiss as I have no doubt that you did also, and I instantly lit the light and attacked it." "With the result of driving it through the ventilator." "And also with the result of causing it to turn upon its master at the other side.
I thought that it must be when I saw the door open.' "'Oh, I am so frightened!' I panted.
The crudest of writers could invent nothing more crude." "Indeed, your example is an unfortunate one for your argument," said Holmes, taking the paper and glancing his eye down it.
Her boots I didn't observe.
Fordham shows you.' "I signed the paper as directed, and the lawyer took it away with him.
He had been watching me eagerly out of his small eyes, and I could see a shadow pass over his face as I spoke.
As he loved his cousin, however, there was an excellent explanation why he should retain her secret--the more so as the secret was a disgraceful one.
"'The Church of St.
"Witness: It was.
"No doubt you think me mad?" said he.
He sprang round, and I could see in the gas-light that every vestige of colour had been driven from his face.
Then there is another note in the Morning Post to say that the marriage would be an absolutely quiet one, that it would be at St.
"Good God!
Holmes had brought up a long thin cane, and this he placed upon the bed beside him.
"Was it your custom always to lock yourselves in at night?" "Always." "And why?" "I think that I mentioned to you that the doctor kept a cheetah and a baboon.
"I started from home before six, reached Leatherhead at twenty past, and came in by the first train to Waterloo.
As I came down the stairs I saw Mary herself at the side window of the hall, which she closed and fastened as I approached.
"I am endeavouring to tell you everything, Mr.
The others are Finns and Germans.
If I cannot persuade you to take a lenient view of the matter, Lord St.
I wish she had been of my own station!
The sewing-machine, of the hand type, leaves a similar mark, but only on the left arm, and on the side of it farthest from the thumb, instead of being right across the broadest part, as this was.
And the Rucastles go out to-night?" "Yes." "Is there a cellar with a good strong lock?" "Yes, the wine-cellar." "You seem to me to have acted all through this matter like a very brave and sensible girl, Miss Hunter.
Sherlock Holmes and I surveyed this curt announcement and the rueful face behind it, until the comical side of the affair so completely overtopped every other consideration that we both burst out into a roar of laughter.
You are Holmes, the meddler." My friend smiled.
In the last century, however, four successive heirs were of a dissolute and wasteful disposition, and the family ruin was eventually completed by a gambler in the days of the Regency.
But now, thanks to this lucky chance, I think that we have got them right enough." But the inspector was mistaken, for those criminals were not destined to fall into the hands of justice.
Simon, I think that I have nearly all my data.
What would he do then?
I never saw a more inexorable face in my life." "Oh, we shall soon clear up all that," said Bradstreet.
Holmes.
I am at a loss to know now why you did not advertise." Our visitor gave a rather shamefaced laugh.
By the way, in view of recent occurrences, perhaps I ought to ask Mrs.
Anyhow, he never got tallow-stains from a gas-jet.
Windibank!" Our visitor had recovered something of his assurance while Holmes had been talking, and he rose from his chair now with a cold sneer upon his pale face.
Then at the gasfitters' ball you met, as I understand, a gentleman called Mr.
"What do you make of that?" asked Holmes.
"Then I trust that you at least will honour me with your company," said Sherlock Holmes.
But I shall come back in the evening at the hour you have mentioned, for I should like to see the solution of so tangled a business." "Very glad to see you.
"This discovery, and the evident confusion which the cripple showed, made the inspector realise that the matter was serious.
It's the big white one over yonder.
It cuts into glass as though it were putty." "It's more than a precious stone.
"He!
He lay back without wincing, though he bit his lip from time to time.
You are too timid in drawing your inferences." "Then, pray tell me what it is that you can infer from this hat?" He picked it up and gazed at it in the peculiar introspective fashion which was characteristic of him.
"And pray what am I charged with?" "With making away with Mr.
"That is Mrs.
Wilson.
that was unfortunate.
He's not got blood enough to go in for felony with impunity.
The idea of using a form of poison which could not possibly be discovered by any chemical test was just such a one as would occur to a clever and ruthless man who had had an Eastern training.
Merryweather, striking his stick upon the flags which lined the floor.
In the larger and older jewels every facet may stand for a bloody deed.
Your news of this morning, however, may open his lips." "For heaven's sake, tell me, then, what is this extraordinary mystery!" "I will do so, and I will show you the steps by which I reached it.
'If you choose to call the police, let the police find what they can.' "By this time the whole house was astir, for I had raised my voice in my anger.
The tip had been cut off, not bitten off, but the cut was not a clean one, so I deduced a blunt pen-knife." "Holmes," I said, "you have drawn a net round this man from which he cannot escape, and you have saved an innocent human life as truly as if you had cut the cord which was hanging him.
"From Hatherley Farm-house to the Boscombe Pool is a quarter of a mile, and two people saw him as he passed over this ground.
With these he constructed a sort of Eastern divan, upon which he perched himself cross-legged, with an ounce of shag tobacco and a box of matches laid out in front of him.
I paid the man and hurried into the church.
"'Look here, dad,' said he with his eyes cast down, 'can you let me have £200?' "'No, I cannot!' I answered sharply.
Was there a police-station anywhere near?
Above all, try to let Mr.
"He's quicker at climbing down holes than I am.
Rucastle that she could do nothing with him." "That is well.
Finally he walked over to the bed and spent some time in staring at it and in running his eye up and down the wall.
One of our most lucrative means of laying out money is in the shape of loans, where the security is unimpeachable.
Heh?' "'No,' said I, considerably astonished at his words.
On the next occasion, in the midst of my laughter, I put my handkerchief up to my eyes, and was able with a little management to see all that there was behind me.
I began to ask myself whether I had not done a very foolish thing.
So far I had got before I ever heard Lord St.
"Is Toller still drunk?" he asked.
We shall want you to come to-night by the last train.' "'Where to?' "'To Eyford, in Berkshire.
He's a young man, Mr.
"I wrote my articles and thought little more of the matter until, some time later, I backed a bill for a friend and had a writ served upon me for £25.
"Yes, I did bang out of the house," she said, "for it made me angry to see the easy way in which Mr.
Rucastle and much less amiable.
Your wife has been waiting this two days for you.
"Here is the slip and here are four letters from him." "Thank you.
For the rest, it was cracked, exceedingly dusty, and spotted in several places, although there seemed to have been some attempt to hide the discoloured patches by smearing them with ink.
Have you a cab?" "Yes, I have one waiting." "Then I shall go in it.
I ask you not merely because my friend Dr.
To me at least there was a strange contrast between the sweet promise of the spring and this sinister quest upon which we were engaged.
It will end in my being conveyed into the house.
On the other hand, if you convince the police authorities that there is no possible case against you, I do not know that there is any reason that the details should find their way into the papers.
I observe that there is a good deal of German music on the programme, which is rather more to my taste than Italian or French.
That was a week ago, and from that time I have not sat again in the window, nor have I worn the blue dress, nor seen the man in the road." "Pray continue," said Holmes.
You look at these scattered houses, and you are impressed by their beauty.
You have degraded what should have been a course of lectures into a series of tales." It was a cold morning of the early spring, and we sat after breakfast on either side of a cheery fire in the old room at Baker Street.
Clair had her lunch, started for the City, did some shopping, proceeded to the company's office, got her packet, and found herself at exactly 4.35 walking through Swandam Lane on her way back to the station.
Behind there was nothing remarkable, save that the passage window could be reached from the top of the coach-house.
Let me pass, I say!' He dashed her to one side, and, rushing to the window, cut at me with his heavy weapon.
We had walked several times up and down the lawn, neither Miss Stoner nor myself liking to break in upon his thoughts before he roused himself from his reverie.
Your own opinion is, then, that some unforeseen catastrophe has occurred to him?" "Yes, sir.
"'Come!
In two hours we must be on the scene of action.
Was it to be in church?" "Yes, sir, but very quietly.
Irene Adler, as I will still call her, had hurried up the steps; but she stood at the top with her superb figure outlined against the lights of the hall, looking back into the street.
The lining had been of red silk, but was a good deal discoloured.
Our reserve of bullion is much larger at present than is usually kept in a single branch office, and the directors have had misgivings upon the subject." "Which were very well justified," observed Holmes.
We had no feeling of security unless our doors were locked." "Quite so.
"It is always a joy to meet an American, Mr.
He advanced slowly into the room, turning his head from left to right, and swinging in his right hand the cord which held his golden eyeglasses.
When I was alone once more, however, with the precious case lying upon the table in front of me, I could not but think with some misgivings of the immense responsibility which it entailed upon me.
I had the hint from Holmes that this smooth-faced pawnbroker's assistant was a formidable man--a man who might play a deep game.
Then I, rather imprudently, wished you good-night, and started for the Temple to see my husband.
In the case of the Darlington substitution scandal it was of use to me, and also in the Arnsworth Castle business.
But that is a mere detail.
You will sign it, and Watson here can witness it.
As he glanced down the advertisement column, with his head thrust forward and the paper flattened out upon his knee, I took a good look at the man and endeavoured, after the fashion of my companion, to read the indications which might be presented by his dress or appearance.
As I expected, his reply was typewritten and revealed the same trivial but characteristic defects.
Within there was a small corridor, which ended in a very massive iron gate.
Your salary with me, madam, would commence at £100 a year.' "You may imagine, Mr.
I went down to the Albert Dock and found that she had been taken down the river by the early tide this morning, homeward bound to Savannah.
At that hour we shall be with you, and it will not be long before we solve the mystery." We were as good as our word, for it was just seven when we reached the Copper Beeches, having put up our trap at a wayside public-house.
"You have a grand gift of silence, Watson," said he.
However, when our turn came the little man was much more favourable to me than to any of the others, and he closed the door as we entered, so that he might have a private word with us.
"'I beg that you will state your business, sir,' said I; 'my time is of value.' Heaven forgive me for that last sentence, but the words came to my lips.
I found the ash of a cigar, which my special knowledge of tobacco ashes enables me to pronounce as an Indian cigar.
One morning, at a little before seven o'clock, I was awakened by the maid tapping at the door to announce that two men had come from Paddington and were waiting in the consulting-room.
Kill it and take it with you.' "Well, I did what she said, Mr.
Consider what is involved by your theory.
I lay listening with all my ears.
'I shall expect you, then, at Eyford at 11.15.' "'I shall certainly be there.' "'And not a word to a soul.' He looked at me with a last long, questioning gaze, and then, pressing my hand in a cold, dank grasp, he hurried from the room.
"When Horner had been arrested, it seemed to me that it would be best for me to get away with the stone at once, for I did not know at what moment the police might not take it into their heads to search me and my room.
McCarthy was very anxious that there should be a marriage between us.
Your right hand is quite a size larger than your left.
Well, I think, Doctor, that we may let some light into this dark place, and I believe that the only chance young Openshaw has in the meantime is to do what I have told him.
In this way you see K.
I thought it was Wednesday.
Why should they give you £120 a year, when they could have their pick for £40?
"So much for Mr.
Holmes refused to examine the third chamber, so we passed at once to the second, that in which Miss Stoner was now sleeping, and in which her sister had met with her fate.
I had been lying in an angle of the hedge close by the highroad, and just a little lower down was a long building, which proved, upon my approaching it, to be the very station at which I had arrived upon the previous night.
For a long time he remained there, turning over the leaves and dried sticks, gathering up what seemed to me to be dust into an envelope and examining with his lens not only the ground but even the bark of the tree as far as he could reach.
Would the body be dressed in a coat alone?" "No, sir, but the facts might be met speciously enough.
31 Lyon Place, Camberwell." "Mr.
It is likely that we should have gone on to Paris to-morrow, only that this good gentleman, Mr.
I fear that I bore you with these details, but I have to let you see my little difficulties, if you are to understand the situation." "I am following you closely," I answered.
Twice he was walking, and once he ran swiftly, so that the soles are deeply marked and the heels hardly visible.
What was this nocturnal expedition, and why should I go armed?
'I shall not keep you waiting an instant,' said he, and vanished into the darkness.
I call him father, though it sounds funny, too, for he is only five years and two months older than myself." "And your mother is alive?" "Oh, yes, mother is alive and well.
Clair, with the exception of his coat.
Slipping through the shouting crowd I made my way to the corner of the street, and in ten minutes was rejoiced to find my friend's arm in mine, and to get away from the scene of uproar.
Now, if he had borrowed my money, or if he had married me and got my money settled on him, there might be some reason, but Hosmer was very independent about money and never would look at a shilling of mine.
'I shall have this matter probed to the bottom.' "'You shall learn nothing from me,' said he with a passion such as I should not have thought was in his nature.
When, in addition, I see a Chinese coin hanging from your watch-chain, the matter becomes even more simple." Mr.
His broad black hat, his baggy trousers, his white tie, his sympathetic smile, and general look of peering and benevolent curiosity were such as Mr.
"The circumstances are of great delicacy, and every precaution has to be taken to quench what might grow to be an immense scandal and seriously compromise one of the reigning families of Europe.
I have caught you, have I?
Pray give me the results of your newspaper selections." "Here is the first notice which I can find.
Then I asked him who Mr.
I should like an accurate description of him and any letters of his which you can spare." "I advertised for him in last Saturday's Chronicle," said she.
"You will excuse my calling so late," she began, and then, suddenly losing her self-control, she ran forward, threw her arms about my wife's neck, and sobbed upon her shoulder.
My stepdaughter has been here.
"I know, my dear Watson, that you share my love of all that is bizarre and outside the conventions and humdrum routine of everyday life.
"I am very much afraid that it is not.
Now, we must make the best use of our time, so kindly take us at once to the rooms which we are to examine." The building was of grey, lichen-blotched stone, with a high central portion and two curving wings, like the claws of a crab, thrown out on each side.
"You are right," he cried; "I am the King.
They were all three standing in a knot in front of the altar.
I have a fairly long list at present." "Oh, Anstruther would do your work for you.
Those are the main facts of the case as they came out before the coroner and the police-court." "I could hardly imagine a more damning case," I remarked.
But we shall have horrors enough before the night is over; for goodness' sake let us have a quiet pipe and turn our minds for a few hours to something more cheerful." About nine o'clock the light among the trees was extinguished, and all was dark in the direction of the Manor House.
He mumbled several words, you understand, but that was all that caught the son's ear.
Written in pencil upon the fly-leaf of a book, octavo size, no water-mark.
It is evident, therefore, that if both girls had married, this beauty would have had a mere pittance, while even one of them would cripple him to a very serious extent.
"That is the reward, and I have reason to know that there are sentimental considerations in the background which would induce the Countess to part with half her fortune if she could but recover the gem." "It was lost, if I remember aright, at the Hotel Cosmopolitan," I remarked.
Simon shook his head.
As to your practice, if a gentleman walks into my rooms smelling of iodoform, with a black mark of nitrate of silver upon his right forefinger, and a bulge on the right side of his top-hat to show where he has secreted his stethoscope, I must be dull, indeed, if I do not pronounce him to be an active member of the medical profession." I could not help laughing at the ease with which he explained his process of deduction.
"Your Majesty had not spoken before I was aware that I was addressing Wilhelm Gottsreich Sigismond von Ormstein, Grand Duke of Cassel-Felstein, and hereditary King of Bohemia." "But you can understand," said our strange visitor, sitting down once more and passing his hand over his high white forehead, "you can understand that I am not accustomed to doing such business in my own person.
I hesitated whether to attempt to secure the photograph at once; but the coachman had come in, and as he was watching me narrowly it seemed safer to wait.
But there is, if you will excuse my saying so, something just a little funny about it.
But I take it that it is more likely to be some crony of the landlady's." Sherlock Holmes was wrong in his conjecture, however, for there came a step in the passage and a tapping at the door.
He shrugged his shoulders.
We can't command our love, but we can our actions.
Are you hungry, Watson?" "Not particularly." "Then I suggest that we turn our dinner into a supper and follow up this clue while it is still hot." "By all means." It was a bitter night, so we drew on our ulsters and wrapped cravats about our throats.
Upper Swandam Lane is a vile alley lurking behind the high wharves which line the north side of the river to the east of London Bridge.
Perhaps the villain was softened by the woman's entreaties." "I hardly think that likely.
Some, too, have baffled his analytical skill, and would be, as narratives, beginnings without an ending, while others have been but partially cleared up, and have their explanations founded rather upon conjecture and surmise than on that absolute logical proof which was so dear to him.
Well, we shall see if the inside throws any light upon the matter." A small side door led into the whitewashed corridor from which the three bedrooms opened.
I feared to refer them to you, however, as I knew that you had an inquiry on hand and that you disliked the intrusion of other matters." "Oh, you mean the little problem of the Grosvenor Square furniture van.
"You will, I am sure, forgive anything that may be wanting in our arrangements, when you consider the blow which has come so suddenly upon us." "My dear madam," said I, "I am an old campaigner, and if I were not I can very well see that no apology is needed.
And, above all, take care of yourself in the meanwhile, for I do not think that there can be a doubt that you are threatened by a very real and imminent danger.
"I have some remembrance," said he, "that on the day when my uncle burned the papers I observed that the small, unburned margins which lay amid the ashes were of this particular colour.
"A thousand things come back to me which make me certain that you have hit it.
"And what do you think of it all, Watson?" asked Sherlock Holmes, leaning back in his chair.
Listen to this: "'Lost, on the 9th inst., Mr.
Charming rural place.
McCauley cleared.
He hurried to his chamber and was down again in a few minutes dressed as a common loafer.
"Well, to come to an end of the matter, Mr.
If you two will take the first hansom, Watson and I will follow in the second." Sherlock Holmes was not very communicative during the long drive and lay back in the cab humming the tunes which he had heard in the afternoon.
I have driven down to tell you so.
"There was a double line of tracks of a booted man, and a second double line which I saw with delight belonged to a man with naked feet.
St.
"It is always awkward doing business with an alias." A flush sprang to the white cheeks of the stranger.
Then something suddenly snapped, and your son, finding that he had the coronet in his hands, rushed back, closed the window, ascended to your room, and had just observed that the coronet had been twisted in the struggle and was endeavouring to straighten it when you appeared upon the scene." "Is it possible?" gasped the banker.
Mary and I stay at home.
The richer pa grew the poorer was Frank; so at last pa wouldn't hear of our engagement lasting any longer, and he took me away to 'Frisco.
"It is an ordinary plumber's smoke-rocket, fitted with a cap at either end to make it self-lighting.
"She was never happy at home, Miss Alice wasn't, from the time that her father married again.
"What is it?" "It's quite too funny.
I have the honour to wish you a very good-morning." He bowed, and, turning away without observing the hand which the King had stretched out to him, he set off in my company for his chambers.
A married woman grabs at her baby; an unmarried one reaches for her jewel-box.
Sherlock Holmes was transformed when he was hot upon such a scent as this.
I had brought a pack of cards in my pocket, and I thought that, as we were a partie carrée, you might have your rubber after all.
'Is he not a beauty?' "I looked through and was conscious of two glowing eyes, and of a vague figure huddled up in the darkness.
So much for the police-court," said Holmes thoughtfully, tossing aside the paper.
They were on the upper floor, and from our window we could command a view of the avenue gate, and of the inhabited wing of Stoke Moran Manor House.
In that, however, I was in error.
The £4 a week was a lure which must draw him, and what was it to them, who were playing for thousands?
Now, if you cared to apply, Mr.
She little knew what.
In a word, I turned over a new leaf and did my best to make up for the past.
"Do you not find," he said, "that with your short sight it is a little trying to do so much typewriting?" "I did at first," she answered, "but now I know where the letters are without looking." Then, suddenly realising the full purport of his words, she gave a violent start and looked up, with fear and astonishment upon her broad, good-humoured face.
What do you deduce from that?" "They are all seaports.
"My God!" I whispered; "did you see it?" Holmes was for the moment as startled as I.
Amid the action and reaction of so dense a swarm of humanity, every possible combination of events may be expected to take place, and many a little problem will be presented which may be striking and bizarre without being criminal.
"There is no mystery, my dear madam," said he, smiling.
'Hullo!
Windibank, asking him whether he could meet us here at six o'clock tomorrow evening.
I left him then, still puffing at his black clay pipe, with the conviction that when I came again on the next evening I would find that he held in his hands all the clues which would lead up to the identity of the disappearing bridegroom of Miss Mary Sutherland.
However innocent he might be, he could not be such an absolute imbecile as not to see that the circumstances were very black against him.
I saw that he was too hardened for any words of mine to influence him.
The letter which I hold in my hand is from Lord St.
I took two steps forward and looked back.
The thing to do was clearly to bring the business to an end in such a dramatic manner that it would leave a permanent impression upon the young lady's mind and prevent her from looking upon any other suitor for some time to come.
'They will be here in a moment.
I knelt beside him for some minutes, and then made my way to Mr.
I am sorry to hear you say that.
Holder.
It is a very sweet little problem, and I would not have missed it for a good deal.
I am going out now!" "To the police?" "No; I shall be my own police.
I could see that she was pretty, and from the gloss with which the light shone upon her dark dress I knew that it was a rich material.
This dust, you will observe, is not the gritty, grey dust of the street but the fluffy brown dust of the house, showing that it has been hung up indoors most of the time, while the marks of moisture upon the inside are proof positive that the wearer perspired very freely, and could therefore, hardly be in the best of training." "But his wife--you said that she had ceased to love him." "This hat has not been brushed for weeks.
By it he laid the box of matches and the stump of a candle.
He wanted her to sign a paper, so that whether she married or not, he could use her money.
On receiving this the victim might either openly abjure his former ways, or might fly from the country.
As I entered, a sallow Malay attendant had hurried up with a pipe for me and a supply of the drug, beckoning me to an empty berth.
We found him, when we went to search for him, face downward in a little green-scummed pool, which lay at the foot of the garden.
I am much indebted to you, sir, for a Scotch bonnet is fitted neither to my years nor my gravity." With a comical pomposity of manner he bowed solemnly to both of us and strode off upon his way.
He was in a pitiable state of reaction, with every nerve in a twitter.
"I suppose you know all about it," he snarled.
Her violet eyes shining, her lips parted, a pink flush upon her cheeks, all thought of her natural reserve lost in her overpowering excitement and concern.
Palmer and Pritchard were among the heads of their profession.
Grimesby Roylott's chamber was larger than that of his step-daughter, but was as plainly furnished.
So much is fairly clear.
There was a rush, a clatter upon the stairs, the bang of a door, and the crisp rattle of running footfalls from the street.
Mrs.
"Here it is!" He quietly shot back a panel in the upper part of the door and glanced through.
"Witness: I was so disturbed and excited as I rushed out into the open, that I could think of nothing except of my father.
"Indeed!
"'You doubt its value?' he asked.
It appears that she was formerly a danseuse at the Allegro, and that she has known the bridegroom for some years.
Of these bedrooms the first is Dr.
One of the gold corners, with three of the beryls in it, was missing.
There you must stay, or you lose your billet.' "'And the work?' "'Is to copy out the "Encyclopaedia Britannica." There is the first volume of it in that press.
He was very willing to have a holiday, so we shut the business up and started off for the address that was given us in the advertisement.
"Last Monday Mr.
Let's have it straight, now." "It is straight enough.
Save, perhaps, that.
I would not have his cursed stock mixed with mine; not that I had any dislike to the lad, but his blood was in him, and that was enough.
"None save my partner with his family and an occasional friend of Arthur's.
Boots had then run down the lane, and another little smudge of blood showed that it was he who had been hurt.
It was a long fight between my pride and the money, but the dollars won at last, and I threw up reporting and sat day after day in the corner which I had first chosen, inspiring pity by my ghastly face and filling my pockets with coppers.
I have watched the fellow more than once before ever I thought of making his professional acquaintance, and I have been surprised at the harvest which he has reaped in a short time.
"We must sit without light.
Holmes, sir," said the police agent loftily.
I could not imagine a man of your habits looking at himself in an equal light and being satisfied with such a result.
"You are fatigued with your haste.
Shortly after my return I heard the wheels of his trap in the yard, and, looking out of my window, I saw him get out and walk rapidly out of the yard, though I was not aware in which direction he was going.
And she will do it.
"I have said that though the floor and ceiling were of iron, the walls were of wood.
"'Never.' "'Why, I wonder at that, for you are eligible yourself for one of the vacancies.' "'And what are they worth?' I asked.
There was a long silence, broken only by his heavy breathing and by the measured tapping of Sherlock Holmes' finger-tips upon the edge of the table.
"Pray continue your very interesting statement." "There was nothing in the office but a couple of wooden chairs and a deal table, behind which sat a small man with a head that was even redder than mine.
I have it from the same source that you are both an orphan and a bachelor and are residing alone in London.' "'That is quite correct,' I answered; 'but you will excuse me if I say that I cannot see how all this bears upon my professional qualifications.
Mr.
In life or in death, I am ever "'Your loving "'Mary.' "What could she mean by that note, Mr.
One singular point which struck her quick feminine eye was that although he wore some dark coat, such as he had started to town in, he had on neither collar nor necktie.
The alarm of fire was admirably done.
I could, of course, borrow so trifling a sum ten times over from my friends, but I much prefer to make it a matter of business and to carry out that business myself.
The bride, who had fortunately entered the house before this unpleasant interruption, had sat down to breakfast with the rest, when she complained of a sudden indisposition and retired to her room.
Too little, if he could not invent a cause of quarrel which would give him the sympathy of the jury; too much, if he evolved from his own inner consciousness anything so outré as a dying reference to a rat, and the incident of the vanishing cloth.
My hand-mirror had been broken, so a happy thought seized me, and I concealed a piece of the glass in my handkerchief.
"My God!
They inherit Plantagenet blood by direct descent, and Tudor on the distaff side.
Leave Paddington by the 11.15." "What do you say, dear?" said my wife, looking across at me.
4d.
She rose at once.
Some of the blows of my cane came home and roused its snakish temper, so that it flew upon the first person it saw.
It is the vilest murder-trap on the whole riverside, and I fear that Neville St.
Tell us the truth, for there lies your only hope of safety." Ryder passed his tongue over his parched lips.
And here he comes, if I am not mistaken, to resolve all our doubts." As he spoke there was the sharp sound of horses' hoofs and grating wheels against the curb, followed by a sharp pull at the bell.
Wilson!' said Vincent Spaulding.
Holmes, when I got back to my lodgings and found little enough in the cupboard, and two or three bills upon the table.
St.
Your skill has indeed exceeded all that I have heard of it.
They appear to have avoided the society of the neighbouring English families and to have led retired lives, though both the McCarthys were fond of sport and were frequently seen at the race-meetings of the neighbourhood.
Round his brow he had a peculiar yellow band, with brownish speckles, which seemed to be bound tightly round his head.
Holmes, from the moment that I understood that there was something about that suite of rooms which I was not to know, I was all on fire to go over them.
Mr.
It becomes a personal matter with me now, and, if God sends me health, I shall set my hand upon this gang.
Francis Hay Moulton.
From all I hear it is splendid pay and very little to do.' "'But,' said I, 'there would be millions of red-headed men who would apply.' "'Not so many as you might think,' he answered.
Now, then!
They say that away down in the village, and even in the distant parsonage, that cry raised the sleepers from their beds.
Still, of course, if you would like to draw out of the business, there is plenty of time to do so.' "I thought of the fifty guineas, and of how very useful they would be to me.
Then with his lens he tested the hinges, but they were of solid iron, built firmly into the massive masonry.
Then he stood before the fire and looked me over in his singular introspective fashion.
He might avert it all if he would but tell me what he had done with the three missing stones.
Watson, before whom you can speak as freely as before myself.
That was the word the man uttered, and of which his son only caught the last two syllables.
You suppose that your son came down from his bed, went, at great risk, to your dressing-room, opened your bureau, took out your coronet, broke off by main force a small portion of it, went off to some other place, concealed three gems out of the thirty-nine, with such skill that nobody can find them, and then returned with the other thirty-six into the room in which he exposed himself to the greatest danger of being discovered.
Then Sherlock Holmes pulled down from the shelf one of the ponderous commonplace books in which he placed his cuttings.
Oh, let us lose not an instant in bringing help to this poor creature." "We must be circumspect, for we are dealing with a very cunning man.
My dear wife knew that I had business in the City.
I can only claim the merit that I instantly reconsidered my position when, however, it became clear to me that whatever danger threatened an occupant of the room could not come either from the window or the door.
He learned to play heavily at cards and to squander money on the turf, until he had again and again to come to me and implore me to give him an advance upon his allowance, that he might settle his debts of honour.
'Arms: Azure, three caltrops in chief over a fess sable.
The blow was struck from immediately behind, and yet was upon the left side.
'You have doubtless heard of the Beryl Coronet?' "'One of the most precious public possessions of the empire,' said I.
I found that I had my man, so I came home and changed my clothes.
"Indeed, I should have thought a little more.
He was a devil incarnate.
As to what you tell me of poor Mary, it goes to my very heart.
Will you not wait and breakfast?" "No, I must go.
Take a pinch of snuff, Doctor, and acknowledge that I have scored over you in your example." He held out his snuffbox of old gold, with a great amethyst in the centre of the lid.
Simon, I have brought an advocate here who may be more successful." He opened the door and ushered in a lady and gentleman.
Did I buy the geese off you?" "No; but one of them was mine all the same," whined the little man.
We are only just in time to prevent some subtle and horrible crime." "Subtle enough and horrible enough.
"Now, Mr.
This fellow, a Lascar, was well paid by me for his rooms, so that I knew that my secret was safe in his possession.
All the way there every man I met seemed to me to be a policeman or a detective; and, for all that it was a cold night, the sweat was pouring down my face before I came to the Brixton Road.
Fowler and Miss Rucastle were married, by special license, in Southampton the day after their flight, and he is now the holder of a government appointment in the island of Mauritius.
Already I was unable to stand erect, when my eye caught something which brought a gush of hope back to my heart.
He said that if they were sent to the office he would be chaffed by all the other clerks about having letters from a lady, so I offered to typewrite them, like he did his, but he wouldn't have that, for he said that when I wrote them they seemed to come from me, but when they were typewritten he always felt that the machine had come between us.
He never spoke of the softer passions, save with a gibe and a sneer.
"It's a bonny thing," said he.
"Well, your own good sense will suggest what measures I took next.
If you will have the goodness to touch the bell, Doctor, we will begin another investigation, in which, also a bird will be the chief feature." THE ADVENTURE OF THE SPECKLED BAND On glancing over my notes of the seventy odd cases in which I have during the last eight years studied the methods of my friend Sherlock Holmes, I find many tragic, some comic, a large number merely strange, but none commonplace; for, working as he did rather for the love of his art than for the acquirement of wealth, he refused to associate himself with any investigation which did not tend towards the unusual, and even the fantastic.
When he told us of a man in a pew, of the change in the bride's manner, of so transparent a device for obtaining a note as the dropping of a bouquet, of her resort to her confidential maid, and of her very significant allusion to claim-jumping--which in miners' parlance means taking possession of that which another person has a prior claim to--the whole situation became absolutely clear.
But never mind that.
One of the latter knocked off the man's hat, on which he raised his stick to defend himself and, swinging it over his head, smashed the shop window behind him.
My evidence showed that the door had been fastened upon the inner side, and the windows were blocked by old-fashioned shutters with broad iron bars, which were secured every night.
"Excuse me," he said, "but it is not my custom to discuss my most intimate personal affairs in this public manner." "Then you won't forgive me?
But in any case it does not seem to be a nice household for a young lady." "But the money, Mr.
Was dressed, when last seen, in black frock-coat faced with silk, black waistcoat, gold Albert chain, and grey Harris tweed trousers, with brown gaiters over elastic-sided boots.
An elderly man with a red face and shaking limbs came staggering out at a side door.
I do not know at what hour he came in, but when I came down to breakfast in the morning there he was with a cup of coffee in one hand and the paper in the other, as fresh and trim as possible.
Watson, who is occasionally good enough to help me in my cases.
I went and saw him.
I soon found Briony Lodge.
"So far I had got when we went to visit the scene of action.
I am not hysterical, nor given to fainting.
There were six of us, and we had a wild, free life of it, sticking up a station from time to time, or stopping the wagons on the road to the diggings.
My morning's work has not been wasted, since it has proved that he has the very strongest motives for standing in the way of anything of the sort.
I was already a dying and a desperate man.
He laughed, I remember, and shrugged his shoulders, and said there was no use denying anything to a woman, for she would have her way." "I see.
I shall take up as little of your valuable time as possible, so I shall start at once upon my peculiar experiences." Holmes sat in his big armchair with the weary, heavy-lidded expression which veiled his keen and eager nature, while I sat opposite to him, and we listened in silence to the strange story which our visitor detailed to us.
"Yes, and I confess that the contents startled me beyond measure.
Of all these varied cases, however, I cannot recall any which presented more singular features than that which was associated with the well-known Surrey family of the Roylotts of Stoke Moran.
"You will excuse my beginning without you, Watson," said he, "but you remember that our client has rather an early appointment this morning." "Why, it is after nine now," I answered.
"Witness (with considerable confusion): I do not know.
I was conscious of a dull pain, my grip loosened, and I fell into the garden below.
I shall have the others, but he first." "How did you trace it, then?" He took a large sheet of paper from his pocket, all covered with dates and names.
As he reached the corner of Goodge Street, a row broke out between this stranger and a little knot of roughs.
On examination traces of blood were to be seen upon the windowsill, and several scattered drops were visible upon the wooden floor of the bedroom.
The man who entered was a strange and impressive figure.
I shall look into the matter between this and then.
James Windibank wished Miss Sutherland to be so bound to Hosmer Angel, and so uncertain as to his fate, that for ten years to come, at any rate, she would not listen to another man.
"What!" he roared.
I know it, and I want you to start upon your work knowing it, too.
"'Here we are, Jack,' says he, touching me on the arm; 'we'll be as good as a family to you.
You should be ashamed of yourself!" "So I am.
The blow has always fallen at the end of the time which it would take the senders to travel the distance.
"'Thank God,' he cried.
Holmes scribbled a receipt upon a sheet of his note-book and handed it to him.
Perhaps you will have the goodness to look it over and to show us how we can set it right.' "I took the lamp from him, and I examined the machine very thoroughly.
No one else, I think." "Do you go out much in society?" "Arthur does.
You are in my power.
Just a trifle more, I fancy, Watson.
I went in the shape of a loafer to Sir George's house, managed to pick up an acquaintance with his valet, learned that his master had cut his head the night before, and, finally, at the expense of six shillings, made all sure by buying a pair of his cast-off shoes.
"Which of you is Holmes?" asked this apparition.
The bridge, no doubt, was too crowded, even on such a night, for their purpose.
St.
Holmes?" "I called about that beggarman, Boone--the one who was charged with being concerned in the disappearance of Mr.
Windibank came he made her sell the business, for he was very superior, being a traveller in wines.
Such are the true facts of the death of Dr.
Perhaps because he was so angry that you should suspect him." "How could I help suspecting him, when I actually saw him with the coronet in his hand?" "Oh, but he had only picked it up to look at it.
We stepped, as it were, right out of the carriage and into the hall, so that I failed to catch the most fleeting glance of the front of the house.
Of course, that is only just for the time.
There is, however, one of these last which was so remarkable in its details and so startling in its results that I am tempted to give some account of it in spite of the fact that there are points in connection with it which never have been, and probably never will be, entirely cleared up.
"I believe in hard work and not in sitting by the fire spinning fine theories.
I have it here and I will read it to you: "'The Copper Beeches, near Winchester.
Ferguson remained outside, and the colonel ushered me in.
There is a woodcock, I believe.
I then hurried forward, and found him standing by the pool.
Who would have ever believed it?' He spoke in a jesting tone, but there was no jest in his eyes as he looked at me.
I call him mine, but really old Toller, my groom, is the only man who can do anything with him.
And now, Watson, we shall order breakfast, and afterwards I shall walk down to Doctors' Commons, where I hope to get some data which may help us in this matter." It was nearly one o'clock when Sherlock Holmes returned from his excursion.
And now let us consider another point.
If she were ill-used, then at any risks I was determined to go back to her assistance.
From what you have told me I think that it is possible that graver issues hang from it than might at first sight appear." "Grave enough!" said Mr.
A formidable array of bottles and test-tubes, with the pungent cleanly smell of hydrochloric acid, told me that he had spent his day in the chemical work which was so dear to him.
"He is still with you?" "Oh, yes, sir; I have only just left him." "And has your business been attended to in your absence?" "Nothing to complain of, sir.
I was wondering what I should say to this dear little woman to-night when she meets me at the door." "You forget that I know nothing about it." "I shall just have time to tell you the facts of the case before we get to Lee.
To me, with my nerves worked up to a pitch of expectancy, there was something depressing and subduing in the sudden gloom, and in the cold dank air of the vault.
A mad, unreasoning terror rose up in me at the sight, Mr.
I shall want your help to-night." "At what time?" "Ten will be early enough." "I shall be at Baker Street at ten." "Very well.
"'There are three missing.
"They would have had the lady's purse and watch if it hadn't been for him.
"I am much mistaken if we do not hear from her before many days are past." It was not very long before my friend's prediction was fulfilled.
He appeared to be much surprised at seeing me and asked me rather roughly what I was doing there.
"So much for the servants.
It was a perfect day, with a bright sun and a few fleecy clouds in the heavens.
I never will again.
We can do nothing until seven o'clock.
sweating--rank sweating!' he cried, throwing his fat hands out into the air like a man who is in a boiling passion.
Male costume is nothing new to me.
One evening, after the child was in bed, I began to amuse myself by examining the furniture of my room and by rearranging my own little things.
'By the way,' said I, 'you seem to have quite a suite of spare rooms up there, and one of them has the shutters up.' "He looked surprised and, as it seemed to me, a little startled at my remark.
O." Then he sealed it and addressed it to "Captain James Calhoun, Barque Lone Star, Savannah, Georgia." "That will await him when he enters port," said he, chuckling.
Turner was apparently the richer man, so McCarthy became his tenant but still remained, it seems, upon terms of perfect equality, as they were frequently together.
He has taken to his bed, and Dr.
But I shall return by the twelve o'clock train, so as to be there in time for your coming." "And you may expect us early in the afternoon.
I did not breathe freely until I had taken it upstairs and locked it in the bureau of my dressing-room.
Holmes.
"Sarasate plays at the St.
Aloysius Doran.
I had not gone more than 150 yards, however, when I heard a hideous outcry behind me, which caused me to run back again.
I stared at it horror-stricken, not knowing what was about to issue from it.
I have no doubt that she loved you, but there are women in whom the love of a lover extinguishes all other loves, and I think that she must have been one.
Gone was the coarse brown tint!
"He doesn't look a credit to the Bow Street cells, does he?" He slipped his key into the lock, and we all very quietly entered the cell.
B.' are legible upon the lining of this hat, but as there are some thousands of Bakers, and some hundreds of Henry Bakers in this city of ours, it is not easy to restore lost property to any one of them." "What, then, did Peterson do?" "He brought round both hat and goose to me on Christmas morning, knowing that even the smallest problems are of interest to me.
"You didn't know this dead man, McCarthy.
She sits in her own little office, and the ladies who are seeking employment wait in an anteroom, and are then shown in one by one, when she consults her ledgers and sees whether she has anything which would suit them.
He was much excited, without either his gun or his hat, and his right hand and sleeve were observed to be stained with fresh blood.
That fatal night Dr.
"'Not at all.
A groan of disappointment came up from below, and the folk all trooped away in different directions until there was not a red-head to be seen except my own and that of the manager.
"Married!
I took up the envelope and saw scrawled in red ink upon the inner flap, just above the gum, the letter K three times repeated.
Clair.
At first, of course, he denied everything.
"Here you are, 'Mrs.
I had returned to civil practice and had finally abandoned Holmes in his Baker Street rooms, although I continually visited him and occasionally even persuaded him to forgo his Bohemian habits so far as to come and visit us.
K.
Lestrade, of Scotland Yard, looks upon as so serious.
'Why shouldn't we be married right away, then,' said he, 'and then I will feel sure of you; and I won't claim to be your husband until I come back?' Well, we talked it over, and he had fixed it all up so nicely, with a clergyman all ready in waiting, that we just did it right there; and then Frank went off to seek his fortune, and I went back to pa.
B." were scrawled upon one side.
Problems may be solved in the study which have baffled all those who have sought a solution by the aid of their senses.
"'What papers?
"'We are now,' said he, 'actually within the hydraulic press, and it would be a particularly unpleasant thing for us if anyone were to turn it on.
I think that with your permission I will now wish you all a very good-night." He included us all in a sweeping bow and stalked out of the room.
Are you satisfied?" "Well, it is very ingenious," said I, laughing; "but since, as you said just now, there has been no crime committed, and no harm done save the loss of a goose, all this seems to be rather a waste of energy." Sherlock Holmes had opened his mouth to reply, when the door flew open, and Peterson, the commissionaire, rushed into the apartment with flushed cheeks and the face of a man who is dazed with astonishment.
Besides, she is not so very young.
Holmes, do tell him that I know him to be innocent." "I will, Miss Turner." "I must go home now, for dad is very ill, and he misses me so if I leave him.
It is a capital mistake to theorize before one has data.
"You really are very fine indeed.
12th.
The swing of his nature took him from extreme languor to devouring energy; and, as I knew well, he was never so truly formidable as when, for days on end, he had been lounging in his armchair amid his improvisations and his black-letter editions.
here is her carriage at the door." He had hardly spoken before there rushed into the room one of the most lovely young women that I have ever seen in my life.
"It is a nice household," he murmured.
As to my own little practice, it seems to be degenerating into an agency for recovering lost lead pencils and giving advice to young ladies from boarding-schools.
There is a distinct element of danger." "Can I be of assistance?" "Your presence might be invaluable." "Then I shall certainly come." "It is very kind of you." "You speak of danger.
One mistake had been made in not arresting Boone instantly, as he was allowed some few minutes during which he might have communicated with his friend the Lascar, but this fault was soon remedied, and he was seized and searched, without anything being found which could incriminate him.
The sun was shining very brightly, and yet there was an exhilarating nip in the air, which set an edge to a man's energy.
Once only had I known him to fail, in the case of the King of Bohemia and of the Irene Adler photograph; but when I looked back to the weird business of the Sign of Four, and the extraordinary circumstances connected with the Study in Scarlet, I felt that it would be a strange tangle indeed which he could not unravel.
He was always well dressed, very neat and plain, but his eyes were weak, just as mine are, and he wore tinted glasses against the glare." "Well, and what happened when Mr.
It is just as well that we should do business with the male relatives.
God help me!
All red-headed men who are sound in body and mind and above the age of twenty-one years, are eligible.
"It is quite a pretty little problem," said he.
smack!
"Good heavens!" I cried, "this is a terrible injury.
Chubb lock to the door.
Simon was decoyed away by Flora Millar, and that she, with confederates, no doubt, was responsible for her disappearance.
Between a slop-shop and a gin-shop, approached by a steep flight of steps leading down to a black gap like the mouth of a cave, I found the den of which I was in search.
That dreadful sentinel sent a chill to my heart which I do not think that any burglar could have done.
Turning round we saw a little rat-faced fellow standing in the centre of the circle of yellow light which was thrown by the swinging lamp, while Breckinridge, the salesman, framed in the door of his stall, was shaking his fists fiercely at the cringing figure.
Let me explain.
Stay where you are.
Nothing simpler.
The banker's dressing-room was a plainly furnished little chamber, with a grey carpet, a large bureau, and a long mirror.
When I had made it clear to them, I returned to the main chamber of the machine and took a good look at it to satisfy my own curiosity.
"I think that I have seen now all that there is to see, Mr.
On the inside of the flap he wrote "S.
With a shriek of joy our client clutched it up.
I am sorry to have interrupted you.
I glanced down at my hand, which was throbbing painfully, and then, for the first time, saw that my thumb had been cut off and that the blood was pouring from my wound.
But, after all, if he is satisfied, why should I put ideas in his head?" "Why, indeed?
We did at last hear that somewhere far out in the Atlantic a shattered stern-post of a boat was seen swinging in the trough of a wave, with the letters "L.
The body exhibited no traces of violence, and there can be no doubt that the deceased had been the victim of an unfortunate accident, which should have the effect of calling the attention of the authorities to the condition of the riverside landing-stages." We sat in silence for some minutes, Holmes more depressed and shaken than I had ever seen him.
If she does not love your Majesty, there is no reason why she should interfere with your Majesty's plan." "It is true.
James McCarthy, going the same way with a gun under his arm.
"I shall probably wish to go over the outside of the house again.
"I glanced at the books upon the table, and in spite of my ignorance of German I could see that two of them were treatises on science, the others being volumes of poetry.
The sleeper half turned, and then settled down once more into a deep slumber.
"Have you an order to see him in prison?" "Yes, but only for you and me." "Then I shall reconsider my resolution about going out.
I put my pistol to the head of the wagon-driver, who was this very man McCarthy.
"Yes, miss.
But since we see that he has broken the elastic and has not troubled to replace it, it is obvious that he has less foresight now than formerly, which is a distinct proof of a weakening nature.
The bride gave me a sovereign, and I mean to wear it on my watch-chain in memory of the occasion." "This is a very unexpected turn of affairs," said I; "and what then?" "Well, I found my plans very seriously menaced.
"I should not be surprised if that were he.
Hosmer Angel." Mr.
There's two of us, me and my son, and you can have the keeping of us.
It seemed funny that I should ask his leave, as he was only a few years older than me; but I didn't want to do anything on the sly, so I wrote to father at Bordeaux, where the company has its French offices, but the letter came back to me on the very morning of the wedding." "It missed him, then?" "Yes, sir; for he had started to England just before it arrived." "Ha!
Come on, my boy, and we shall see whether it will not fit the lock." We made our way downstairs as quietly as possible, and out into the bright morning sunshine.
My groom and my page sleep out of the house, and may be set aside altogether.
The man's business was a small one, and there was nothing in his house which could account for such elaborate preparations, and such an expenditure as they were at.
"Last Monday I had finished for the day and was dressing in my room above the opium den when I looked out of my window and saw, to my horror and astonishment, that my wife was standing in the street, with her eyes fixed full upon me.
John Horner, a plumber, was accused of having abstracted it from the lady's jewel-case.
Besides, it is a useless expense, for how could you possibly find this Hosmer Angel?" "On the contrary," said Holmes quietly; "I have every reason to believe that I will succeed in discovering Mr.
"There's a cold-blooded scoundrel!" said Holmes, laughing, as he threw himself down into his chair once more.
That was to some extent in favour of the accused, as when seen quarrelling he was face to face with his father.
Such a charge is absurd to anyone who really knows him." "I hope we may clear him, Miss Turner," said Sherlock Holmes.
"It is, of course, well known to you that in a successful banking business as much depends upon our being able to find remunerative investments for our funds as upon our increasing our connection and the number of our depositors.
Duncan Ross took to coming in only once of a morning, and then, after a time, he did not come in at all.
By the way, about the bird, we were compelled to eat it." "To eat it!" Our visitor half rose from his chair in his excitement.
Nothing could be more natural than the sequence of events as narrated by this lady, and nothing stranger than the result when viewed, for instance, by Mr.
"I shall go down to Hampshire quite easy in my mind now.
I have just been looking through all the recent papers in order to master the particulars.
His manner was brisk, and yet his general appearance gave an undue impression of age, for he had a slight forward stoop and a little bend of the knees as he walked.
"You're angry, Robert," said she.
"My name is Sherlock Holmes.
We shall now have a little supper and then retire, for we may have a very busy day to-morrow." A large and comfortable double-bedded room had been placed at our disposal, and I was quickly between the sheets, for I was weary after my night of adventure.
It only remains, therefore, to discover what is wanted by this German who writes upon Bohemian paper and prefers wearing a mask to showing his face.
There was the huge famished brute, its black muzzle buried in Rucastle's throat, while he writhed and screamed upon the ground.
Will you be ready to-morrow?' "'Certainly,' I answered.
"'It would be injustice to hesitate,' said he.
We shall now see how the electric-blue dress will become you.
Rucastle, however, who has evidently no sense of humour, never so much as smiled, but sat with her hands in her lap, and a sad, anxious look upon her face.
"His face fell immediately.
Then creeping up to me and making a trumpet of his hand, he whispered into my ear again so gently that it was all that I could do to distinguish the words: "The least sound would be fatal to our plans." I nodded to show that I had heard.
A name derived from the fanciful resemblance to the sound produced by cocking a rifle.
That will be next Monday." "Oh, then we have three days yet," said Holmes with a yawn.
The fire was burning brightly, and in the grate there was a mass of black, fluffy ashes, as of burned paper, while the brass box stood open and empty beside it.
You can understand that this register and diary may implicate some of the first men in the South, and that there may be many who will not sleep easy at night until it is recovered." "Then the page we have seen--" "Is such as we might expect.
"Watson, I think you know Mr.
Nothing to complain of.
The smell of hot metal remained to assure us that the light was still there, ready to flash out at a moment's notice.
You'd be as warm, maybe, if you were as pestered as I am.
"You will excuse me for not waiting for you," said he; "I have, I foresee, a very busy day before me in looking into this case of young Openshaw's." "What steps will you take?" I asked.
There was the point from which all my adventures started.
"But at any time, day or night, a telegram would bring me down to your help." "That is enough." She rose briskly from her chair with the anxiety all swept from her face.
When I see you, my dear Watson, with a week's accumulation of dust upon your hat, and when your wife allows you to go out in such a state, I shall fear that you also have been unfortunate enough to lose your wife's affection." "But he might be a bachelor." "Nay, he was bringing home the goose as a peace-offering to his wife.
Men who had only known the quiet thinker and logician of Baker Street would have failed to recognise him.
His rusty black frock-coat was buttoned right up in front, with the collar turned up, and his lank wrists protruded from his sleeves without a sign of cuff or shirt.
May we bring him in, marm?" "Surely.
Neville St.
"Where does that bell communicate with?" he asked at last pointing to a thick bell-rope which hung down beside the bed, the tassel actually lying upon the pillow.
I was glad that he should go, for it seemed to me that he was farther from danger when he was away from home.
"I wish you were all at the devil together.
Very few governesses in England are getting £100 a year.
And, I say, Doctor, there may be some little danger, so kindly put your army revolver in your pocket." He waved his hand, turned on his heel, and disappeared in an instant among the crowd.
There would be one to Reading in less than an hour.
Then it was that the lust of the chase would suddenly come upon him, and that his brilliant reasoning power would rise to the level of intuition, until those who were unacquainted with his methods would look askance at him as on a man whose knowledge was not that of other mortals.
Clair was doing in the opium den, what happened to him when there, where is he now, and what Hugh Boone had to do with his disappearance--are all as far from a solution as ever.
He could only say that if I waited I should hear by post.
Her features and figure were those of a woman of thirty, but her hair was shot with premature grey, and her expression was weary and haggard.
"Holmes," I cried, "you are too late." "Ah!" said he, laying down his cup, "I feared as much.
He had stood behind that tree during the interview between the father and son.
Knowing that my wife would be terribly anxious, I slipped off my ring and confided it to the Lascar at a moment when no constable was watching me, together with a hurried scrawl, telling her that she had no cause to fear." "That note only reached her yesterday," said Holmes.
I stood firm.
Holmes.
Good has come out of evil, however, for the barmaid, finding from the papers that he is in serious trouble and likely to be hanged, has thrown him over utterly and has written to him to say that she has a husband already in the Bermuda Dockyard, so that there is really no tie between them.
"There is a friend of mine here, Mr.
Get out!" And no more words were needed.
His hair, too, as he swept off his very curly-brimmed hat, was grizzled round the edges and thin upon the top.
and Mrs.
Holmes.
Of these he took five and thrust them into an envelope.
If we could fly out of that window hand in hand, hover over this great city, gently remove the roofs, and peep in at the queer things which are going on, the strange coincidences, the plannings, the cross-purposes, the wonderful chains of events, working through generations, and leading to the most outré results, it would make all fiction with its conventionalities and foreseen conclusions most stale and unprofitable." "And yet I am not convinced of it," I answered.
There can be no question that it was your oil-lamp which, when it was crushed in the press, set fire to the wooden walls, though no doubt they were too excited in the chase after you to observe it at the time.
"The goose, Mr.
I should not wish a smarter assistant, Mr.
Wilson, off you go at scratch and tell us all about yourself, your household, and the effect which this advertisement had upon your fortunes.
Now, of course that suggested at once that there must be a communication between the two rooms.
"I can see nothing," said I, handing it back to my friend.
"Why, it's a dummy," said he.
Jeremiah Hayling, aged twenty-six, a hydraulic engineer.
abstracted from the jewel-case of the Countess of Morcar the valuable gem known as the blue carbuncle.
And yet she had some secret sorrow, this woman.
"A nice little brougham and a pair of beauties.
If the latter, it was less likely.
A fierce quarrel broke out, which was increased by the two guardsmen, who took sides with one of the loungers, and by the scissors-grinder, who was equally hot upon the other side.
When she wouldn't do it, he kept on worrying her until she got brain-fever, and for six weeks was at death's door.
But there I was firm.
And, first of all, we must choose our positions.
Also, by the way, that it is extremely improbable that he has gas laid on in his house." "You are certainly joking, Holmes." "Not in the least.
She never came back." "But this maid, Alice, as I understand, deposes that she went to her room, covered her bride's dress with a long ulster, put on a bonnet, and went out." "Quite so.
I can see him now, with yellow, pasty face, drooping lids, and pin-point pupils, all huddled in a chair, the wreck and ruin of a noble man.
Giving pain to any creature weaker than himself seems to be his one idea of amusement, and he shows quite remarkable talent in planning the capture of mice, little birds, and insects.
"It has been in some points a singular case," said Holmes, flicking the horse on into a gallop.
With his collar turned up, his shiny, seedy coat, his red cravat, and his worn boots, he was a perfect sample of the class.
I want to see whether the objections are fatal, or if they may be explained away.
'For the love of Heaven!' she whispered, 'get away from here before it is too late!' "But I am somewhat headstrong by nature, and the more ready to engage in an affair when there is some obstacle in the way.
Over the edge there peeped a clean-cut, boyish face, which looked keenly about it, and then, with a hand on either side of the aperture, drew itself shoulder-high and waist-high, until one knee rested upon the edge.
McCarthy the elder using very strong language to his son, and she saw the latter raise up his hand as if to strike his father.
It looks as if they always send their singular warning or token before them when starting upon their mission.
My overstrung nerves failed me suddenly, and I turned and ran--ran as though some dreadful hand were behind me clutching at the skirt of my dress.
As I strolled up and down, glancing at them occasionally, Mr.
But here she comes in person to resolve our doubts." As he spoke there was a tap at the door, and the boy in buttons entered to announce Miss Mary Sutherland, while the lady herself loomed behind his small black figure like a full-sailed merchant-man behind a tiny pilot boat.
There are one or two minor points which were brought out in the inquest, and which are worth considering." "What are they?" "It appears that his arrest did not take place at once, but after the return to Hatherley Farm.
Recently he has been drinking hard, and yesterday evening he was very drunk; and when I came upstairs there was the key in the door.
This ground in front belongs to the house, but the woods all round are part of Lord Southerton's preserves.
Thank you.
The Boscombe Pool, which is a little reed-girt sheet of water some fifty yards across, is situated at the boundary between the Hatherley Farm and the private park of the wealthy Mr.
At his fall the guardsmen took to their heels in one direction and the loungers in the other, while a number of better-dressed people, who had watched the scuffle without taking part in it, crowded in to help the lady and to attend to the injured man.
She would like advice, but is not sure that the matter is not too delicate for communication.
I must go now, Doctor; I have my dooties, just the same as you." And off he went, this trusty tout, without even giving me time to thank him.
On entering his room I found Holmes in animated conversation with two men, one of whom I recognised as Peter Jones, the official police agent, while the other was a long, thin, sad-faced man, with a very shiny hat and oppressively respectable frock-coat.
"'I was foolish enough to go into the empty wing,' I answered.
Boots which extended halfway up his calves, and which were trimmed at the tops with rich brown fur, completed the impression of barbaric opulence which was suggested by his whole appearance.
Clair, of Lee." "Yes.
The photograph is in a recess behind a sliding panel just above the right bell-pull.
He was doing something in the cellar--something which took many hours a day for months on end.
He denied strenuously having ever seen Mr.
I had remained indoors all day, for the weather had taken a sudden turn to rain, with high autumnal winds, and the Jezail bullet which I had brought back in one of my limbs as a relic of my Afghan campaign throbbed with dull persistence.
It is possible, however, that I may have something better before very many minutes are over, for this is one of my clients, or I am much mistaken." He had risen from his chair and was standing between the parted blinds gazing down into the dull neutral-tinted London street.
Let the matter drop and say no more.
Read it!" He tossed a crumpled letter across to me.
Neville St.
Roylott was in India he married my mother, Mrs.
A dull wrack was drifting slowly across the sky, and a star or two twinkled dimly here and there through the rifts of the clouds.
I did not wish to lose such a place without a struggle, so, as I had heard that you were good enough to give advice to poor folk who were in need of it, I came right away to you." "And you did very wisely," said Holmes.
He looked her over in his searching fashion, and then composed himself, with his lids drooping and his finger-tips together, to listen to her story.
These, we presume, indicated the nature of the papers which had been destroyed by Colonel Openshaw.
You owe a very humble apology to that noble lad, your son, who has carried himself in this matter as I should be proud to see my own son do, should I ever chance to have one." "Then it was not Arthur who took them?" "I told you yesterday, and I repeat to-day, that it was not." "You are sure of it!
Three gone before you could wink!' He leaned back in his chair and laughed his eyes into his head again.
Holmes, and on Saturday the manager came in and planked down four golden sovereigns for my week's work.
As it emerged into the moonshine I saw what it was.
Mrs.
Suddenly, with a plunge, as of the swimmer who leaves the bank, she hurried across the road, and we heard the sharp clang of the bell.
I think that I could be of assistance to you." "You?
He'd had the quinsy and swollen glands when he was young, he told me, and it had left him with a weak throat, and a hesitating, whispering fashion of speech.
However that may be, the young lady was very decidedly carried away, and, having quite made up her mind that her stepfather was in France, the suspicion of treachery never for an instant entered her mind.
You put me off, do you?" said our new visitor, taking a step forward and shaking his hunting-crop.
When shall you be able to enter upon your new duties?' "'Well, it is a little awkward, for I have a business already,' said I.
Beside this table, on the wooden chair, sat Dr.
It is her carriage.
Ryder instantly gave the alarm, and Horner was arrested the same evening; but the stone could not be found either upon his person or in his rooms.
You seem to have done the thing very completely.
He is one of the most dangerous men in England--a ruined gambler, an absolutely desperate villain, a man without heart or conscience.
As to Holmes, I observed that he sat frequently for half an hour on end, with knitted brows and an abstracted air, but he swept the matter away with a wave of his hand when I mentioned it.
You observed that her right glove was torn at the forefinger, but you did not apparently see that both glove and finger were stained with violet ink.
Then he turned to me, tapped his forehead three times, shook his head solemnly, and hurried away.
I think that we may gain that by means of the law; but we have our web to weave, while theirs is already woven.
He took off his coat and waistcoat, put on a large blue dressing-gown, and then wandered about the room collecting pillows from his bed and cushions from the sofa and armchairs.
Indeed, I have found that it is usually in unimportant matters that there is a field for the observation, and for the quick analysis of cause and effect which gives the charm to an investigation.
"Come with me, and we will see what is to be made of this fellow." Striding through the scattered knots of people who lounged round the flaring stalls, my companion speedily overtook the little man and touched him upon the shoulder.
"I've had enough of you and your geese," he shouted.
The bedrooms in this wing are on the ground floor, the sitting-rooms being in the central block of the buildings.
"'I am sure if I had known--' "'Well, then, you know now.
"He is looking up at the numbers of the houses." "I believe that he is coming here," said Holmes, rubbing his hands.
Good-night." "Now for Mr.
Clair by name, who appeared to have plenty of money.
Sherlock Holmes sat moodily at one side of the fireplace cross-indexing his records of crime, while I at the other was deep in one of Clark Russell's fine sea-stories until the howl of the gale from without seemed to blend with the text, and the splash of the rain to lengthen out into the long swash of the sea waves.
"Which key was used to open it?" he asked.
I thought that he was delirious.
No, sir, I shall approach this case from the point of view that what this young man says is true, and we shall see whither that hypothesis will lead us.
Her jacket was black, with black beads sewn upon it, and a fringe of little black jet ornaments.
"To smoke," he answered.
"He is dead," cried several voices.
There's no vice in him." "He is still with you, I presume?" "Yes, sir.
You must also put in a note to say that all the other papers were burned by your uncle, and that this is the only one which remains.
So long was he that Mr.
And pray what did you hope to arrive at through this?" "At some evidence implicating Flora Millar in the disappearance." "I am afraid that you will find it difficult." "Are you, indeed, now?" cried Lestrade with some bitterness.
It is so dreadful to think of our dear Arthur in a prison!" "I shall never let it drop until the gems are found--never, Mary!
By a curious chance you came upon her tresses.
